'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-ADD" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-add \[em] Add resources to the current Acton project
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton add\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Add reusable resources to an existing Acton project.
.sp
The first supported flow is adding contracts from built\-in templates. This
copies the selected template\[cq]s contract sources, wrappers, tests, and scripts
into the current project and registers the template contracts in \fBActon.toml\fR\&.
.sp
Template files are copied into a template\-specific namespace such as
\fBcontracts/counter/\fR or \fBcontracts/jetton/\fR\&. Imports inside copied Tolk files
are rewritten to point at that namespace, so template support files such as
\fBtypes.tolk\fR, \fBerrors.tolk\fR, and wrapper utilities do not collide with files
already present in the project.
.sp
The command refuses to overwrite existing files unless \fB\-\-overwrite\fR is passed.
It also refuses to add a template when any of its contract ids already exist in
\fBActon.toml\fR\&.
.SH "SUBCOMMANDS"
.SS "acton add contract"
Add a contract and its supporting template files to the current project.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton add contract\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB\-\-from template\fR [\fItemplate\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-from\fR \fIsource\fR
.RS 4
Source to add the contract from.
.sp
Currently only \fBtemplate\fR is supported.
.RE
.sp
\fItemplate\fR
.RS 4
Template to add.
.sp
If omitted in an interactive terminal, Acton asks which template to use.
In non\-interactive mode, this argument is required.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-overwrite\fR
.RS 4
Overwrite existing files whose paths collide with the template.
.sp
This only applies to files on disk. Existing contract ids in \fBActon.toml\fR are
not overwritten.
.RE
.SH "DISPLAY OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SH "PROJECT OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "TEMPLATES"
Supported template values are the same built\-in contract templates used by
\fBacton new\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBempty\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBcounter\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBjetton\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBnft\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBw5\-extension\fR
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Add the counter template to the current project:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton add contract \-\-from template counter
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Add the jetton template and build its minter contract:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton add contract \-\-from template jetton
acton build JettonMinter
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Run tests copied from a template:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test tests/counter/counter.test.tolk
.fi
.RE
.RE
