'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-RETRACE" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-retrace \[em] Replay an on\-chain transaction locally for inspection
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton retrace\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIhash\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Download a transaction by hash and replay it locally in the TON sandbox.
.sp
\fBacton retrace\fR is useful for debugging failures, inspecting outgoing actions,
reviewing VM and executor logs, and comparing local replay results with the
original on\-chain execution.
.sp
When \fB\-\-contract\fR is provided, Acton also prepares a source\-level retrace for
the named project contract by recompiling it with debug info and source maps.
When \fB\-\-debug\fR is added, the prepared replay is exposed as a local Debug
Adapter Protocol (DAP) server for editor integration.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Retrace Options"
.sp
\fIhash\fR
.RS 4
Transaction hash in hex format.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-net\fR \fInetwork\fR
.RS 4
Network to retrace from.
.sp
Without this flag, Acton tries mainnet first and then falls back to testnet.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 4
Show full cell hex in outgoing actions instead of only hashes.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-logs\-dir\fR \fIdir\fR
.RS 4
Write VM and executor logs into the specified directory.
.RE
.SS "Source-Level Debugging Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-contract\fR \fIname\fR
.RS 4
Contract name from \fBActon.toml\fR used to build a source\-level trace for the
retraced transaction.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-debug\fR
.RS 4
Expose the prepared source\-level retrace as a local DAP server.
.sp
Requires \fB\-\-contract\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-debug\-port\fR \fIport\fR
.RS 4
Debug server port to use with \fB\-\-debug\fR\&.
.sp
When omitted, Acton uses \fB12345\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "NETWORK AND API BEHAVIOR"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Without \fB\-\-net\fR, Acton tries mainnet and then testnet
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBlocalnet\fR and \fBcustom:<name>\fR are not supported by the retrace backend
.RE
.SH "TONCENTER API KEYS"
Built\-in \fBmainnet\fR/\fBtestnet\fR requests read \fBTONCENTER_MAINNET_API_KEY\fR or
\fBTONCENTER_TESTNET_API_KEY\fR, depending on the selected network.
.sp
Acton loads \fB\&.env\fR automatically, so the simplest setup during project work is
usually to keep these keys there and use shell environment variables only for
one\-off overrides or CI.
.sp
If no matching key is configured, Acton throttles requests to reduce
rate\-limit failures.
.sp
For library fallback lookups, retrace also supports \fBDTON_API_KEY\fR from the
environment.
.SH "SOURCE-LEVEL RETRACE"
When \fB\-\-contract\fR is set:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the contract must exist in the resolved \fBActon.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the selected source must be a \fB\&.tolk\fR contract
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Acton refreshes the bundled stdlib under \fB\&.acton/\fR before preparing the
source\-level retrace
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Acton recompiles the contract for the current invocation with debug info and
source maps
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'no prior \fBacton build \-\-debug\fR step is required, but the current local
sources and import mappings must compile cleanly
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the recompilation must return both source maps and debug marks; missing either
is a hard error
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the compiled local code hash must match the code hash used by the retraced
transaction
.RE
.sp
If you run the command outside the project directory, use \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR or
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR so Acton can resolve the contract configuration and import mappings.
.SH "DEBUG MODE"
When \fB\-\-debug\fR is used together with \fB\-\-contract\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Acton starts a local DAP server on \fB127.0.0.1:<port>\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the normal retrace summary is still printed before the debug server starts
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the command stays attached to that debug session until the client disconnects
.RE
.sp
This mode is intended for editor integrations that speak the Debug Adapter
Protocol.
.sp
\fB\-\-debug\-port\fR follows the same convention as other Acton debug commands:
without \fB\-\-debug\fR it does not start a debug server.
.sp
Current replay\-debug limits:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the retrace adapter exposes one DAP thread only
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'replay sessions do not expose the live \fBRegisters\fR scope available in local
debug sessions
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the supported request set is intentionally narrow: source breakpoints,
continue/step, stack/scopes/variables, exception info, evaluate, and
disconnect
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'unsupported client\-specific extension requests are ignored rather than
emulated
.RE
.SH "VS CODE SETUP"
Typical setup:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Install or load the TON VS Code extension.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Make sure VS Code can find your \fBacton\fR binary.
.sp
If needed, point the extension at a specific binary with an environment
variable such as \fBACTON_BIN\fR, or start VS Code from a shell where \fBacton\fR is
already on \fBPATH\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Open the project workspace that contains the target contract in
\fBActon.toml\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Start a retrace debug session either through the extension command or
through a manual \fBlaunch.json\fR entry.
.RE
.sp
For a manual setup, create \fB\&.vscode/launch.json\fR like this:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
{
  "version": "0.2.0",
  "configurations": [
    {
      "type": "tolk",
      "request": "launch",
      "name": "Attach to Acton Retrace",
      "debugServer": 4711
    }
  ]
}
.fi
.RE
.sp
Then start retrace in a terminal from the project root:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton retrace <HASH> \-\-contract <NAME> \-\-debug \-\-debug\-port 4711
.fi
.RE
.sp
After the DAP server is listening, launch the matching VS Code debug
configuration. Breakpoints should be set in the same \fB\&.tolk\fR sources that
belong to the selected contract from \fBActon.toml\fR\&.
.SH "OUTPUT"
The command prints:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'network selection and state\-hash check status
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'transaction metadata and fee summary
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'compute and action phase summaries
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'decoded outgoing actions
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'additional full VM and executor logs when \fB\-\-logs\-dir\fR is used
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'source\-level debug preparation errors when \fB\-\-contract\fR is used
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'DAP startup status when \fB\-\-debug\fR is used
.RE
.sp
When \fB\-\-logs\-dir\fR is set, Acton creates the target directory and writes
\fBvm.log\fR plus \fBexecutor.log\fR there.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The transaction was fetched and replayed successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: The transaction could not be found, network lookup failed, replay data
was incomplete, local contract validation or compilation failed, the local
code hash did not match the retraced account code, the DAP server could not
start, or local log files could not be written.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Retrace with automatic network fallback:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton retrace 3c1b02a33390e596d83b306eab57b3f7271bc90e2e527ea4cafccfde25139d41
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Force mainnet and use an API key from the environment:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
TONCENTER_MAINNET_API_KEY=your\-key acton retrace 3c1b02a33390e596d83b306eab57b3f7271bc90e2e527ea4cafccfde25139d41 \-\-net mainnet
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Save logs and show full outgoing cell bodies:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton retrace 3c1b02a33390e596d83b306eab57b3f7271bc90e2e527ea4cafccfde25139d41 \-\-verbose \-\-logs\-dir build/retrace
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Prepare a source\-level retrace for a project contract:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton retrace 3c1b02a33390e596d83b306eab57b3f7271bc90e2e527ea4cafccfde25139d41 \-\-contract JettonMinter
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Start a local DAP server for editor debugging:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton retrace 3c1b02a33390e596d83b306eab57b3f7271bc90e2e527ea4cafccfde25139d41 \-\-contract JettonMinter \-\-debug \-\-debug\-port 4711
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help disasm\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIRetrace command guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/commands/retrace>
.RE
