'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-HELP" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-help \[em] Show root help or detailed help for a specific command
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton help\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIcommand\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Show help for the Acton CLI.
.sp
Without an argument, \fBacton help\fR prints the root command overview.
.sp
For detailed manuals, prefer \fBacton help <command>\fR\&. Generated manuals document
behavior, configuration, side effects, and examples in more detail than short
flag help.
.sp
With a command name, Acton first tries to render a generated command manual
from the bundled \fBtxt\fR and \fBman\fR artifacts. If no generated manual exists,
Acton falls back to clap long help for that subcommand.
.sp
If the command name is unknown, Acton reports an error and may suggest a
similar command name.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Help Options"
.sp
\fIcommand\fR
.RS 4
Command to show help for.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
This command does not require an existing project manifest for its primary
workflow. It remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-project\-root\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
This command does not require an existing project root for its primary
workflow. It remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "PAGER AND FALLBACK"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'when output is a terminal, \fBacton help <command>\fR prefers rendering through
\fBman\fR, then \fBless\fR, then \fBmore\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'when output is not a terminal, Acton writes the generated plain\-text manual
directly to standard output
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'piping or redirecting output disables pager rendering automatically
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'when no generated manual exists for a command, Acton falls back to clap long
help, which is typically shorter and flag\-focused
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help\fR itself does not require a project to exist
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: Help was printed successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: The requested command was unknown or help rendering failed.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Show the root command overview:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton help
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Show the generated manual for \fBbuild\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton help build
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Show help for an unknown command:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton help not\-a\-command
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Search within a manual without invoking the pager:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton help build | rg "EXIT STATUS|EXAMPLES"
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton \-\-help\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help new\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fICommands overview\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/commands>
.RE
