'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-DOC" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-doc \[em] Look up reference documentation and contract ABIs from the CLI
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton doc\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Look up reference documentation from the terminal.
.sp
\fBacton doc\fR provides contract ABI lookup through the \fBabi\fR subcommand and TVM
instruction lookup through the \fBtvm\fR subcommand.
.SH "SUBCOMMANDS"
.SS "acton doc abi"
Print compiler ABI JSON for a local or bundled contract.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton doc abi\fR \fIcontract\fR
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIcontract\fR
.RS 4
Contract name, local contract id, or bundled catalog name.
.RE
.SS "Behavior"
\fBacton doc abi\fR first looks at local contracts from \fBActon.toml\fR, then falls
back to the bundled ABI catalog.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'local lookup accepts the contract id, display name, or ABI contract name
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'bundled catalog lookup accepts the catalog display name or ABI contract name
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'output is always formatted compiler ABI JSON
.RE
.SS "acton doc tvm"
Lookup TVM instructions by exact name or fuzzy search query.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton doc tvm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIinstruction\fR\[u2026]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIinstruction\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Instruction names or search queries.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-find\fR
.RS 4
Treat the input as a fuzzy search query instead of an exact instruction name.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-description\fR
.RS 4
Include descriptions in fuzzy matching.
.sp
Requires \fB\-\-find\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-json\fR
.RS 4
Emit JSON instead of formatted text.
.RE
.SS "Behavior"
Without \fB\-\-find\fR, each argument is treated as an instruction name.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'name matching is case\-insensitive
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\fR and \fB#\fR are normalized for convenience
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'JSON mode always returns an array of instruction objects
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'at least one instruction name is required
.RE
.sp
With \fB\-\-find\fR, each argument is treated as a search query.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'fuzzy matching uses instruction names by default
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-description\fR also matches instruction descriptions, tags, and operands
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'JSON mode returns query/matches objects
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'at least one query is required
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'queries with no matches return an error instead of an empty result set
.RE
.SH "TOPICS"
Currently available documentation namespaces:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBabi\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBtvm\fR
.RE
.sp
Additional namespaces may be added in future releases.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The requested documentation was printed successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: The namespace was unknown, arguments were invalid, or rendering failed.
.RE
.SH "DISPLAY OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SH "PROJECT OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
This command does not require an existing project manifest for its primary
workflow. It remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-project\-root\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
This command does not require an existing project root for its primary
workflow. It remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Exact lookup:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton doc tvm ADD
acton doc tvm ADD SUB
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'JSON output:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton doc tvm SENDRAWMSG \-\-json
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Fuzzy search:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton doc tvm SENRAWMSG \-\-find
acton doc tvm outcomng \-\-find \-\-description
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Compare exact lookup with fuzzy search:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton doc tvm SENDRAWMSG
acton doc tvm SENRAWMSG \-\-find
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Print contract ABI:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton doc abi WalletV4r2
acton doc abi counter
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fICLI docs lookup guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/commands/doc>
.RE
