'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-WALLET" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-wallet \[em] Create, import, inspect, and use development wallets
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton wallet\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Manage wallets used for Acton development workflows.
.sp
The wallet subsystem can create new wallets, import mnemonic\-based wallets,
list available wallets, export mnemonics interactively, sign external message
bodies, request faucet funds, and remove stored wallet entries.
.sp
Wallets created by this workflow are intended for development and testing. The
default network context is testnet.
.SH "COMMON LIFECYCLE"
The wallet workflow is not limited to \fBwallet new\fR\&.
.sp
Typical follow\-up commands are:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton wallet import\fR to reuse an existing mnemonic
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton wallet list \-\-balance\fR to inspect configured wallets and balances
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton wallet airdrop \-\-net localnet\fR to fund a wallet from a localnet
faucet
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton wallet sign\fR to sign an external message body without writing a whole
script
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton wallet export\-mnemonic\fR for interactive export
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton wallet remove \-y\fR to remove a wallet non\-interactively
.RE
.SH "TONCENTER API KEYS"
Testnet balance\-backed wallet flows read \fBTONCENTER_TESTNET_API_KEY\fR,
including \fBwallet list \-\-balance\fR and the interactive post\-airdrop balance
confirmation after \fBwallet new\fR\&.
.sp
Acton loads \fB\&.env\fR automatically, so the simplest setup during project work is
usually to keep this key there and use shell environment variables only for
one\-off overrides or CI.
.SH "SUBCOMMANDS"
.SS "acton wallet new"
Generate a new wallet.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton wallet new\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-name\fR \fIname\fR
.RS 4
Wallet name.
.sp
If omitted, Acton prompts for it.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-version\fR \fIversion\fR
.RS 4
Wallet version.
.sp
If omitted, Acton prompts for it.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-local\fR
.RS 4
Save the wallet to local \fBwallets.toml\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-global\fR
.RS 4
Save the wallet to global \fBglobal.wallets.toml\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-secure\fR [\fBtrue\fR|\fBfalse\fR]
.RS 4
Use a secure native store for mnemonic storage when available.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-airdrop\fR
.RS 4
Request testnet TON after wallet creation.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-faucet\-url\fR \fIurl\fR
.RS 4
Faucet URL for automatic testnet airdrop.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-wait\-airdrop\fR
.RS 4
Do not wait for testnet funds to appear after a successful automatic airdrop.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-json\fR
.RS 4
Emit JSON output.
.RE
.sp
Wallet names are normalized to lowercase, spaces become \fB\-\fR, and unsupported
characters are removed.
.SS "acton wallet import"
Import an existing mnemonic\-based wallet.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton wallet import\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fImnemonics\fR\[u2026]]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fImnemonics\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Mnemonic words for the wallet.
.sp
If omitted, Acton prompts interactively.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-name\fR \fIname\fR
.RS 4
Wallet name.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-version\fR \fIversion\fR
.RS 4
Wallet version.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-local\fR
.RS 4
Save the wallet to local \fBwallets.toml\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-global\fR
.RS 4
Save the wallet to global \fBglobal.wallets.toml\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-secure\fR [\fBtrue\fR|\fBfalse\fR]
.RS 4
Use a secure native store for mnemonic storage when available.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-json\fR
.RS 4
Emit JSON output.
.RE
.SS "acton wallet list"
List configured wallets.
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-balance\fR
.RS 4
Fetch and print wallet balances.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-json\fR
.RS 4
Emit JSON output.
.RE
.SS "acton wallet export-mnemonic"
Export a wallet mnemonic with interactive confirmation.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton wallet export\-mnemonic\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIname\fR]
.sp
This command is interactive\-only and asks for confirmation before showing the
mnemonic.
.SS "acton wallet sign"
Sign an external message body with the selected wallet.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton wallet sign\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIname\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIname\fR
.RS 4
Wallet name.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-body\fR, \fB\-\-message\fR \fIboc\fR
.RS 4
External body BoC to sign in hex or base64.
.sp
If omitted, Acton reads from stdin when stdin is piped; otherwise it prompts
interactively.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-json\fR
.RS 4
Emit JSON output.
.RE
.sp
Without \fB\-\-json\fR, Acton prints the signed external\-body BoC in hex. With
\fB\-\-json\fR, it prints a JSON object containing the signed hex body.
.SS "acton wallet airdrop"
Request faucet funds for a wallet.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton wallet airdrop\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIname\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIname\fR
.RS 4
Wallet name.
.sp
If omitted, Acton auto\-selects or prompts.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-net\fR \fInetwork\fR
.RS 4
Airdrop backend.
.sp
Possible values: \fBtestnet\fR, \fBlocalnet\fR
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-faucet\-url\fR \fIurl\fR
.RS 4
Custom faucet URL for the testnet backend.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-wait\-airdrop\fR
.RS 4
Do not wait for testnet funds to appear after a successful testnet airdrop.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-json\fR
.RS 4
Emit JSON output.
.RE
.sp
With \fB\-\-net localnet\fR, Acton uses the localnet faucet instead of the
testnet PoW flow.
.SS "acton wallet remove"
Remove a wallet from configuration.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton wallet remove\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIname\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIname\fR
.RS 4
Wallet name.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
.RS 4
Skip the confirmation prompt.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-json\fR
.RS 4
Emit JSON output.
.RE
.sp
If the wallet uses keyring storage, Acton also removes the mnemonic from the
secure store.
.SH "RESOLUTION RULES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'wallet definitions are merged from \fBglobal.wallets.toml\fR first and then
local \fBwallets.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'when both files define the same wallet name, the local entry wins
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'commands that need a wallet auto\-select it only when exactly one merged
wallet is available
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'otherwise Acton prompts on a TTY; in non\-interactive contexts, provide the
wallet name explicitly
.RE
.SH "NEW AND IMPORT WORKFLOW"
\fBwallet new\fR and \fBwallet import\fR share the same storage choices and most of the
same prompts.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if \fB\-\-name\fR is omitted, Acton prompts for the wallet name
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if \fB\-\-version\fR is omitted, Acton prompts for the wallet version
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'local wallets are stored in project \fBwallets.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'global wallets are stored in \fBglobal.wallets.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'common wallet versions include \fBv5r1\fR, \fBv4r2\fR, \fBv3r2\fR, and highload variants
.RE
.sp
When secure native storage is available, Acton prefers storing mnemonics in the
system keyring instead of plain\-text config.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if \fB\-\-secure=true\fR is requested explicitly but secure storage is unavailable,
the command fails
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if secure storage is unavailable and \fB\-\-secure\fR is omitted, Acton falls back
to plain\-text config
.RE
.sp
When \fBwallet new\fR is used interactively without \fB\-\-airdrop\fR, Acton can offer to
request testnet funds automatically after creating the wallet.
After an interactive auto\-airdrop succeeds, Acton briefly waits for the balance
to appear on testnet and lets you skip that wait by pressing \fBEnter\fR, unless
\fB\-\-no\-wait\-airdrop\fR is passed.
.SH "LISTING, SIGNING, AND EXPORT"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBwallet list \-\-balance\fR resolves balances through TonCenter and also respects
\fBTONCENTER_TESTNET_API_KEY\fR; the same environment variable is used when
\fBwallet new\fR waits for testnet funds after an interactive auto\-airdrop
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBwallet sign\fR auto\-detects hex and base64 input, preferring hex when a payload
could be interpreted as both
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'surrounding stdin whitespace is trimmed before decoding the message body
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBwallet export\-mnemonic\fR is interactive\-only and asks for confirmation before
showing the mnemonic
.RE
.SH "AIRDROP DETAILS"
For \fBwallet airdrop\fR, the selected backend depends on \fB\-\-net\fR\&.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBtestnet\fR requests a PoW challenge from the faucet, solves it locally, and
submits a claim
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBlocalnet\fR sends a fixed faucet transfer through Localnet
.RE
.sp
After a successful interactive testnet \fBwallet airdrop\fR, Acton briefly waits
for the balance to appear and lets you skip that wait by pressing \fBEnter\fR,
unless \fB\-\-no\-wait\-airdrop\fR is passed.
.sp
\fB\-\-faucet\-url\fR is only valid for \fBtestnet\fR, must use \fBhttp\fR or \fBhttps\fR, and may
not include query parameters or fragments.
.sp
When \fB\-\-json\fR is used, successful responses include the wallet address and may
also include PoW metadata such as difficulty, nonce, and solve time for the
testnet flow.
.SH "REMOVAL NOTES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if both local and global wallets share the same name, local config takes
precedence when removing
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'in non\-interactive mode, \fBwallet remove\fR requires \fB\-y\fR or \fB\-\-yes\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'removing a wallet from config does not delete external files or environment
variables referenced through other mnemonic sources
.RE
.SH "STORAGE"
Wallets can be stored:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'locally in project \fBwallets.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'globally in \fBglobal.wallets.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'with mnemonic values in plain text (\fBmnemonic\fR), secure keyring storage
(\fBmnemonic\-keyring\fR), environment variables (\fBmnemonic\-env\fR), or external
files (\fBmnemonic\-file\fR) depending on configuration
.RE
.sp
For local wallets, keyring IDs usually include a project prefix. For global
wallets, the keyring ID usually matches the wallet name.
.SH "SECURITY"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'secure keyring storage is recommended when available
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'plain\-text mnemonic storage is for development only
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'do not commit wallet files with real secrets to version control
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The selected wallet subcommand completed successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Input validation failed, a required wallet could not be resolved, a
prompt could not run non\-interactively, secure storage failed, or a network
call such as balance lookup or faucet funding failed.
.RE
.SH "DISPLAY OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SH "PROJECT OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Create a local deployer wallet:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton wallet new \-\-name deployer \-\-version v5r1 \-\-local
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Import an existing mnemonic:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton wallet import \-\-name deployer \-\-local "word1 word2 ... word24"
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Show balances:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton wallet list \-\-balance
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Request faucet funds:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton wallet airdrop deployer \-\-net testnet
acton wallet airdrop deployer \-\-net localnet
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Sign an external body read from stdin:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
cat body.boc.base64 | acton wallet sign deployer
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help localnet\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIWallet command guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/commands/wallet>
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIWallet management guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/wallets>
.RE
