'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-LOCALNET" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-localnet \[em] Manage Acton\[cq]s local TON network
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton localnet\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Manage the local development node used for TON\-compatible local execution,
forked\-state development, and faucet\-based local funding.
.SH "SUBCOMMANDS"
.SS "acton localnet start"
Start the local TON network.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton localnet start\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-port\fR \fIport\fR
.RS 4
Localnet server port.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-fork\-net\fR \fInetwork\fR
.RS 4
Remote network to use for forked account resolution.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-fork\-block\-number\fR \fIseqno\fR
.RS 4
Historical block sequence number to fork from.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-accounts\fR \fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR\[u2026]]_
.RS 4
Wallet names to auto\-fund and deploy on startup.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-db\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to a SQLite database for persistent node state.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-rate\-limit\fR \fIrps\fR
.RS 4
Maximum \fB/api\fR requests per second to simulate provider rate limits.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-response\-delay\-ms\fR \fIms\fR
.RS 4
Delay TonCenter v2/v3 and Emulate API responses.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-block\-interval\-ms\fR \fIms\fR
.RS 4
Localnet block production interval.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-mining\fR
.RS 4
Disable automatic block production. Mine blocks manually with
\fBacton localnet mine\fR or \fBPOST /acton_mine\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-load\-state\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Load Localnet state from a JSON snapshot before startup.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-dump\-state\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Dump Localnet state to a JSON snapshot on shutdown.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-require\-auth\fR
.RS 4
Require a token for all Localnet HTTP API, control, emulate, and streaming
endpoints. The server prints the token on startup.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-load\-state\fR and \fB\-\-db\-path\fR cannot be used together in the same run.
.SS "acton localnet airdrop"
Send GRAM from the local faucet to an address.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton localnet airdrop\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIaddress\fR
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIaddress\fR
.RS 4
Recipient address.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-amount\fR \fIgram\fR
.RS 4
Amount of GRAM to request.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR \fIport\fR
.RS 4
Localnet server port.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-auth\-token\fR \fItoken\fR
.RS 4
Localnet API token for a server started with \fB\-\-require\-auth\fR\&. If omitted,
Acton reads \fBACTON_LOCALNET_AUTH_TOKEN\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "acton localnet mine"
Mine localnet blocks manually.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton localnet mine\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIn\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIn\fR
.RS 4
Number of blocks to mine. Defaults to \fB1\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR \fIport\fR
.RS 4
Localnet server port.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-auth\-token\fR \fItoken\fR
.RS 4
Localnet API token for a server started with \fB\-\-require\-auth\fR\&. If omitted,
Acton reads \fBACTON_LOCALNET_AUTH_TOKEN\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "acton localnet status"
Inspect the current localnet status.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton localnet status\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR \fIport\fR
.RS 4
Localnet server port.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-json\fR
.RS 4
Print machine\-readable JSON.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-auth\-token\fR \fItoken\fR
.RS 4
Localnet API token for a server started with \fB\-\-require\-auth\fR\&. If omitted,
Acton reads \fBACTON_LOCALNET_AUTH_TOKEN\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
You can store defaults in \fBActon.toml\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
[localnet]
port = 5411
fork\-net = "testnet"
fork\-block\-number = 55000000
accounts = ["deployer", "user"]
rate\-limit = 1
response\-delay\-ms = 300
block\-interval\-ms = 500
no\-mining = false
.fi
.RE
.sp
CLI flags override config values for the current invocation.
.SH "TONCENTER API KEYS"
When localnet forks from the built\-in \fBmainnet\fR/\fBtestnet\fR backends,
authenticated requests read \fBTONCENTER_MAINNET_API_KEY\fR or
\fBTONCENTER_TESTNET_API_KEY\fR\&.
.sp
When localnet forks from \fBcustom:<name>\fR, Acton reads
\fB<NORMALIZED_NAME>_API_KEY\fR\&. Custom network names are uppercased and
non\-alphanumeric characters are replaced with \fB_\fR, so \fBcustom:mock\-remote\fR
becomes \fBMOCK_REMOTE_API_KEY\fR\&.
.sp
Acton loads \fB\&.env\fR automatically, so the simplest setup during project work is
usually to keep these keys there and use shell environment variables only for
one\-off overrides or CI.
.SH "LOCALNET API AUTH"
\fBacton localnet start \-\-require\-auth\fR protects every Localnet HTTP route under
\fB/api/*\fR, \fB/acton_*\fR, \fB/api/emulate/*\fR, and \fB/api/streaming/*\fR\&. Static UI files
remain public, but the bundled UI does not receive the token from the server.
When a protected API request returns \fB401\fR, the bundled UI shows a token overlay;
paste the printed token there before using protected API views. The key button
in the sidebar footer reopens the same overlay.
.sp
When auth is enabled, the server prints a localnet API token. Pass it as either:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
Authorization: Bearer <TOKEN>
X\-API\-Key: <TOKEN>
.fi
.RE
.sp
\fBAuthorization: Bearer\fR is the preferred form. \fBX\-API\-Key\fR is accepted for
TonCenter\-compatible clients. Browser WebSocket clients can pass \fBtoken=<TOKEN>\fR
only on \fB/api/streaming/v2/ws\fR\&.
.sp
For CLI subcommands that call localnet control routes, pass \fB\-\-auth\-token\fR or
set \fBACTON_LOCALNET_AUTH_TOKEN\fR\&. If \fBACTON_LOCALNET_AUTH_TOKEN\fR is set when
starting with \fB\-\-require\-auth\fR, localnet uses that value; otherwise it generates
and prints a fresh token.
.SH "RUNTIME MODEL"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'fork mode allows local development against remote chain state
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton localnet start\fR runs in the foreground until the process is stopped
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Acton starts an HTTP server on \fB127.0.0.1:<port>\fR for localnet API, control
endpoints, and the bundled localnet UI
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the server keeps running until the process is stopped, for example with
\fBCtrl+C\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the Localnet UI is available on the root path, for example
\fBhttp://127.0.0.1:<port>/\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the node produces a block every \fB\-\-block\-interval\-ms\fR milliseconds, defaults
to 500 ms, and still creates empty blocks when no transactions are queued
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-no\-mining\fR or \fB[localnet].no\-mining = true\fR disables automatic block
production; use \fBacton localnet mine [N]\fR or \fBPOST /acton_mine\fR to create
blocks manually
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'messages accepted through \fBsend_boc\fR, \fBacton_sendInternalMessage\fR, or the
faucet are queued and included on a later automatic or manually mined block
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'a block can include multiple transactions; locally generated internal
messages are processed in the same block when possible
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the bundled UI is a single\-page explorer app, so routes like \fB/explorer\fR,
\fB/tokens\fR, \fB/nfts\fR, and per\-address or per\-transaction pages are served from
the same frontend shell
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the UI reads chain data from \fB/api/v2\fR and \fB/api/v3\fR, and uses \fBacton_*\fR
control endpoints for local address aliases, registered compiler ABIs,
status, and snapshot tooling
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-require\-auth\fR protects read and write API routes, including read\-only
streaming endpoints
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'when \fB\-\-port\fR and \fB[localnet].port\fR are both absent, the current runtime
fallback is \fB5411\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-rate\-limit\fR applies to \fB/api/*\fR endpoints, not admin endpoints
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-response\-delay\-ms\fR applies only to \fB/api/v2\fR, \fB/api/v3\fR, and
\fB/api/emulate/v1\fR endpoints; streaming, control, and UI routes are not
delayed
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBPOST /acton_setNetworkConditions\fR can change the response delay while the
server is running, and \fBGET /acton_nodeInfo\fR reports the current value
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-dump\-state\fR writes a snapshot during graceful shutdown
.RE
.SH "CONTROL ENDPOINTS"
The localnet server exposes \fBacton_*\fR control routes for local development
tooling:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBGET /acton_nodeInfo\fR returns uptime, latest block seqno, and the active state
source
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBPOST /acton_dumpState\fR with \fB{"path":"snapshots/localnet.json"}\fR writes a
JSON state snapshot without stopping the server
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBPOST /acton_loadState\fR with \fB{"path":"snapshots/localnet.json"}\fR replaces
the current node state with a JSON state snapshot
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBPOST /acton_setShardAccount\fR with
\fB{"address":"<ADDR>","shard_account":"<BASE64_BOC>"}\fR replaces the selected
account state with a base64\-encoded \fBShardAccount\fR BOC
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBPOST /acton_sendInternalMessage\fR with \fB{"boc":"<BASE64_BOC>"}\fR sends a
base64\-encoded internal message BOC through the local internal queue
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBPOST /acton_mine\fR with optional \fB{"blocks":N}\fR mines queued and/or empty
blocks manually; \fBN\fR defaults to \fB1\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBPOST /acton_setNetworkConditions\fR with \fB{"response_delay_ms":300}\fR updates
simulated network latency; use \fB0\fR to disable response delay
.RE
.sp
TonCenter\-compatible message endpoints such as \fB/api/v2/sendBoc\fR and
\fB/api/v3/message\fR accept external\-in messages only. Use
\fB/acton_sendInternalMessage\fR when local tooling needs to inject a raw internal
message.
.sp
Control endpoints are unauthenticated by default for local development. Use
\fB\-\-require\-auth\fR when another local process, browser page, or test harness should
not be able to read or mutate the running localnet without the token. Do not
expose the localnet server publicly.
.SH "PERSISTENCE"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-db\-path\fR enables persistent SQLite\-backed node state across runs
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-load\-state\fR initializes state from a JSON snapshot and cannot be combined
with \fB\-\-db\-path\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-dump\-state\fR exports a JSON snapshot on shutdown
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'when \fB\-\-db\-path\fR is not used, node state is ephemeral unless loaded or dumped
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The selected localnet subcommand completed successfully. For
\fBacton localnet status\fR, this also includes the selected port not running;
use \fB\-\-json\fR and inspect \fBrunning\fR for automation.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Startup failed because port binding, state loading, remote fork
initialization, faucet handling, or a status/control query failed.
.RE
.SH "DISPLAY OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SH "PROJECT OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Start with defaults:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton localnet start
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Fork from testnet at a historical block:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton localnet start \-\-fork\-net testnet \-\-fork\-block\-number 55000000
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Load and dump JSON state snapshots:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton localnet start \-\-load\-state snapshots/localnet.json \-\-dump\-state snapshots/localnet.json
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Airdrop local funds:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton localnet airdrop UQA_ftKIJsHEAE_UgtFOUK15hPzycZooFuUr8duyY9T3kwwM \-\-amount 25
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Start a local integration node with pre\-funded accounts:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton localnet start \-\-accounts deployer,user \-\-db\-path build/localnet.db
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 6.\h'+01'Inspect a running localnet:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton localnet status \-\-json
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help wallet\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fILocal development node guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/localnet/overview>
.RE
