'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-LIBRARY" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-library \[em] Manage on\-chain TON libraries
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton library\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Publish, fetch, inspect, and top up on\-chain TON libraries.
.sp
Library metadata can also be stored locally in \fBlibraries.toml\fR or globally in
\fBglobal.libraries.toml\fR for later inspection and maintenance.
.SH "LIFECYCLE"
A typical library workflow is:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'\fBpublish\fR a contract or code cell
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'save metadata locally or globally for later lookup
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'inspect runtime state with \fBinfo\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'\fBfetch\fR the code again for inspection or backup
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'\fBtopup\fR the library account when more storage time is needed
.RE
.SH "SUBCOMMANDS"
.SS "acton library publish"
Publish a contract or arbitrary code as a library.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton library publish\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIcontract\-name\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIcontract\-name\fR
.RS 4
Contract name to publish.
.sp
Use \fB\-\-code\fR to publish arbitrary code instead of compiling a project contract.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-code\fR \fIcode\fR
.RS 4
Base64 or hex code to publish instead of compiling a contract.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-duration\fR \fIduration\fR
.RS 4
Requested publication duration such as \fB100d\fR or \fB1y\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-wallet\fR \fIwallet\fR
.RS 4
Wallet to use for the publication transaction.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-net\fR \fInetwork\fR
.RS 4
Network to use.
.sp
Defaults to \fBtestnet\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-amount\fR \fIton\fR
.RS 4
Explicit TON amount to send.
.sp
Overrides duration\-based estimation.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
.RS 4
Skip confirmation prompts.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-local\fR
.RS 4
Save library metadata to local \fBlibraries.toml\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-global\fR
.RS 4
Save library metadata to global \fBglobal.libraries.toml\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "acton library fetch"
Fetch library code from the blockchain by hash.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton library fetch\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIhash\fR
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIhash\fR
.RS 4
Library code hash.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-disasm\fR
.RS 4
Disassemble the fetched code and print TASM.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write fetched output to a file.
.sp
If \fB\-\-disasm\fR is used, the output is text. Otherwise Acton writes binary BoC
for \fB\&.boc\fR paths and base64 text for other paths.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-net\fR \fInetwork\fR
.RS 4
Network to use.
.sp
Defaults to \fBtestnet\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-json\fR
.RS 4
Emit JSON output for raw library fetches.
.sp
If \fB\-\-disasm\fR is also passed, Acton prints disassembly text instead.
.RE
.SS "acton library info"
Show information about a deployed library.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton library info\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIname\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIname\fR
.RS 4
Library name to inspect.
.sp
If omitted, Acton can prompt from the available library metadata.
.RE
.sp
The output includes publication time, last top\-up time, current balance, and
estimated remaining storage runway.
.SS "acton library topup"
Top up a library account for additional storage time.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton library topup\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIlibrary\-name\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIlibrary\-name\fR
.RS 4
Library name to top up.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-duration\fR \fIduration\fR
.RS 4
Requested additional storage duration such as \fB100d\fR or \fB1y\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-amount\fR \fIton\fR
.RS 4
Explicit TON amount to send.
.sp
Overrides duration\-based estimation.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-wallet\fR \fIwallet\fR
.RS 4
Wallet to use for the top\-up transaction.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
.RS 4
Skip confirmation prompts.
.RE
.sp
After a successful top\-up, Acton updates \fBlast_topup_timestamp\fR in the stored
library metadata.
.SH "TONCENTER API KEYS"
Built\-in \fBmainnet\fR/\fBtestnet\fR requests read \fBTONCENTER_MAINNET_API_KEY\fR or
\fBTONCENTER_TESTNET_API_KEY\fR, depending on the selected network.
.sp
For \fBcustom:<name>\fR, Acton reads \fB<NORMALIZED_NAME>_API_KEY\fR\&. Custom network
names are uppercased and non\-alphanumeric characters are replaced with \fB_\fR, so
\fBcustom:mock\-remote\fR becomes \fBMOCK_REMOTE_API_KEY\fR\&.
.sp
Acton loads \fB\&.env\fR automatically, so the simplest setup during project work is
usually to keep these keys there and use shell environment variables only for
one\-off overrides or CI.
.SH "DISPLAY OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SH "PROJECT OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "RESOLUTION RULES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'library metadata is merged from \fBglobal.libraries.toml\fR first and then local
\fBlibraries.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'when both files define the same library name, the local entry wins on lookup
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'when saving new metadata into a file that already contains the requested
library ID, Acton appends \fB\-1\fR, \fB\-2\fR, and so on to keep the existing record
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if neither \fB\-\-local\fR nor \fB\-\-global\fR is passed to \fBpublish\fR, Acton prompts for
the destination file
.RE
.SH "AMOUNT ESTIMATION"
For \fBpublish\fR and \fBtopup\fR, \fB\-\-duration\fR is used to estimate the required TON
amount from the library size and storage duration.
.sp
If \fB\-\-amount\fR is passed, it overrides that estimate completely.
.SH "METADATA FILES"
Saved library metadata typically includes:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'name
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'hash
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'code
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'account
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'duration
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'network
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'publication timestamp
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'last top\-up timestamp
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'code size in bits and cells
.RE
.SH "FETCH OUTPUT"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'without \fB\-\-output\fR, fetched code is printed to stdout
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'with \fB\-\-output path.boc\fR, Acton writes binary BoC
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'with \fB\-\-output\fR to any other path, Acton writes base64 text
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'with \fB\-\-disasm\fR, stdout and file output are always disassembly text
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'with \fB\-\-json\fR, Acton prints JSON to stdout and does not also write \fB\-\-output\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if both \fB\-\-json\fR and \fB\-\-disasm\fR are passed, disassembly text takes
precedence over JSON on successful runs
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The selected library subcommand completed successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Contract or wallet resolution failed, chain access failed, metadata
could not be written, or publish/top\-up transaction preparation or submission
failed.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Publish a contract as a library:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton library publish Math \-\-duration 365d \-\-wallet deployer
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Publish arbitrary code:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton library publish \-\-code "te6cckEBAQEAAgAAAEysuc0=" \-\-duration 100d
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Fetch and disassemble a library:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton library fetch <HASH> \-\-disasm
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Top up a library for one year:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton library topup Math \-\-duration 1y
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Fetch raw code into a BoC file:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton library fetch <HASH> \-\-output build/math\-lib.boc
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fILibraries guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/libraries>
.RE
