'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-DISASM" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-disasm \[em] Disassemble TVM bytecode into human\-readable TASM
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton disasm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIboc\-file\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Disassemble compiled TVM bytecode from a file, a literal BoC string, or a live
contract address.
.sp
This command is useful for debugging compiler output, inspecting deployed code,
following library references, and correlating bytecode with Tolk source via
source maps.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Disassembly Options"
.sp
\fIboc\-file\fR
.RS 4
Binary, hex, or base64 BoC file to disassemble.
.sp
Use \fB\-\-string\fR to pass the code directly instead of reading a file.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-string\fR \fIstring\fR
.RS 4
BoC value in hex or base64 format.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write disassembled output to a file instead of standard output.
.sp
If the parent directory does not exist, Acton creates it automatically.
Existing files are overwritten.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-show\-hashes\fR
.RS 4
Show cell hashes alongside code blocks.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-show\-offsets\fR
.RS 4
Show instruction bit offsets in the left column.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-source\-map\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Use a source map to show original Tolk source locations together with
disassembly output.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-address\fR \fIaddress\fR
.RS 4
Fetch contract code from the blockchain by address and disassemble it.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-api\-key\fR \fIkey\fR
.RS 4
TonCenter API key for blockchain queries.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-net\fR \fInetwork\fR
.RS 4
Network to use for \fB\-\-address\fR and library lookups.
.sp
Supported values: \fBmainnet\fR, \fBtestnet\fR, \fBlocalnet\fR, \fBcustom:<name>\fR\&.
.sp
\fBlocalnet\fR and \fBcustom:<name>\fR resolve through the project network
configuration in \fBActon.toml\fR\&.
.sp
If omitted, Acton tries mainnet first and then falls back to testnet.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-follow\-libraries\fR
.RS 4
If the input disassembles to exactly one top\-level exotic library\-reference
cell, fetch and disassemble the actual library code instead of showing only the
library hash reference.
.sp
This is not a general recursive library\-follow mode.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "BLOCKCHAIN LOOKUPS"
When \fB\-\-address\fR is used, Acton fetches code from the selected network.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-net\fR accepts \fBmainnet\fR, \fBtestnet\fR, \fBlocalnet\fR, and \fBcustom:<name>\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBlocalnet\fR and \fBcustom:<name>\fR use URLs from \fBActon.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Without \fB\-\-net\fR, Acton tries mainnet first and then testnet
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-api\-key\fR helps avoid TonCenter rate limits
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'with \fB\-\-address\fR, \fB\-\-follow\-libraries\fR reuses the network that returned the
contract code
.RE
.sp
When \fB\-\-follow\-libraries\fR is used with a local file or \fB\-\-string\fR, Acton uses
the explicit \fB\-\-net\fR if provided; otherwise library fetches default to
testnet.
.SH "INPUT PRECEDENCE"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBBOC_FILE\fR and \fB\-\-string\fR are mutually exclusive
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-address\fR is used only when neither a file nor \fB\-\-string\fR is provided
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-follow\-libraries\fR only replaces the input when the initial disassembly is
exactly one top\-level exotic library\-reference cell and the lookup succeeds
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'ordinary code, mixed instruction streams, or nested library references are a
no\-op for \fB\-\-follow\-libraries\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if library lookup fails, Acton warns and disassembles the original code
instead; this still exits successfully
.RE
.SH "SOURCE MAPS"
If you compiled a contract with \fBacton compile \-\-source\-map\fR, you can pass that
source map JSON here to annotate the disassembly with original Tolk locations.
.sp
\fB\-\-source\-map\fR only affects annotations in the output. It does not change which
BoC is disassembled.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: Disassembly completed successfully, including runs with unresolved
library references that were left as warnings.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: BoC input was invalid, a blockchain fetch failed, source\-map loading
failed, or the output file could not be written.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Disassemble a local BoC file:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton disasm contract.boc
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Disassemble a literal BoC string:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton disasm \-\-string "b5ee9c72010104...0840f01c700f2f4"
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Disassemble code from a blockchain address:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton disasm \-\-address UQA_ftKIJsHEAE_UgtFOUK15hPzycZooFuUr8duyY9T3kwwM \-\-net testnet
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Show hashes, offsets, and source locations:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton disasm contract.boc \-\-show\-hashes \-\-show\-offsets \-\-source\-map contract.json
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Inspect deployed code together with hashes:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton disasm \-\-address UQA_ftKIJsHEAE_UgtFOUK15hPzycZooFuUr8duyY9T3kwwM \-\-show\-hashes \-\-net testnet
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 6.\h'+01'Write disassembly to a nested output path:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton disasm contract.boc \-\-output build/disasm/contract.tasm
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 7.\h'+01'Resolve a top\-level library\-reference cell using a configured custom network:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton disasm library\-ref.boc \-\-follow\-libraries \-\-net custom:staging
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help compile\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIDisassembly command guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/commands/disasm>
.RE
