'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-COMPLETIONS" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-completions \[em] Generate static shell completion scripts
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton completions\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIshell\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Generate a static completion script for the selected shell.
.sp
Acton also supports dynamic completions through the \fBCOMPLETE=<shell> acton\fR
mechanism. Dynamic completions are usually more powerful because they can use
project context such as contract and script names.
.SH "QUICK START"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'for dynamic completions, prefer \fBCOMPLETE=<shell> acton\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'for a static script without editing shell startup files yet, run
\fBacton completions <shell>\fR and inspect the output first
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'regenerate static completion files after upgrading Acton
.RE
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Completion Options"
.sp
\fIshell\fR
.RS 4
Shell to generate completions for.
.sp
Possible values: \fBbash\fR, \fBelvish\fR, \fBfish\fR, \fBpowershell\fR, \fBzsh\fR, \fBnushell\fR
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
This command does not require an existing project manifest for its primary
workflow. It remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-project\-root\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
This command does not require an existing project root for its primary
workflow. It remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "DYNAMIC COMPLETIONS"
Dynamic completions are recommended when your shell supports them.
.SS "Zsh"
Add this to \fB~/.zshrc\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
source <(COMPLETE=zsh acton)
.fi
.RE
.SS "Bash"
Add this to \fB~/.bashrc\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
source <(COMPLETE=bash acton)
.fi
.RE
.SS "Fish"
Add this to \fB~/.config/fish/config.fish\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
COMPLETE=fish acton | source
.fi
.RE
.SH "STATIC INSTALLATION"
\fBacton completions\fR writes the completion script to standard output. Typical
installation patterns include:
.SS "Bash"
For the current shell session:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
source <(acton completions bash)
.fi
.RE
.sp
For a persistent setup, either append to \fB~/.bashrc\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton completions bash >> ~/.bashrc
.fi
.RE
.sp
or install into the system completion directory:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton completions bash | sudo tee /usr/share/bash\-completion/completions/acton
.fi
.RE
.SS "Zsh"
Zsh usually expects the completion file in a directory listed in \fB$fpath\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
mkdir \-p ~/.zsh/completions
acton completions zsh > ~/.zsh/completions/_acton
echo 'fpath=(~/.zsh/completions $fpath)' >> ~/.zshrc
echo 'autoload \-Uz compinit && compinit' >> ~/.zshrc
.fi
.RE
.sp
Reload the shell or run:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
source ~/.zshrc
.fi
.RE
.SS "Fish"
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton completions fish > ~/.config/fish/completions/acton.fish
.fi
.RE
.SS "PowerShell"
For the current session:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton completions powershell | Out\-String | Invoke\-Expression
.fi
.RE
.sp
For a persistent setup, add the generated script to your PowerShell profile.
.SS "Elvish"
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton completions elvish > ~/.elvish/completions/acton.elv
.fi
.RE
.sp
Then load it from \fB~/.elvish/rc.elv\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
use completions/acton
.fi
.RE
.SS "Nushell"
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton completions nushell | save --force ~/.config/nushell/completions/acton.nu
.fi
.RE
.sp
Then load it from \fBconfig.nu\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
source ~/.config/nushell/completions/acton.nu
.fi
.RE
.SH "VERIFYING INSTALLATION"
After installation, try:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton <TAB>
acton test \-\-<TAB>
.fi
.RE
.sp
You should see command names and flag suggestions from the selected shell.
.SH "TROUBLESHOOTING"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if static completions show old commands, regenerate them after updating Acton
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Zsh usually needs \fBcompinit\fR after changing completion locations
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if Zsh still does not complete, delete \fB~/.zcompdump\fR and rerun \fBcompinit\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Bash may require the shell\-specific completion package to be installed
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if PowerShell completions do not persist, verify that the generated script is
loaded from \fB$PROFILE\fR
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The completion script was generated successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: The shell value was unsupported or output could not be written.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Generate a static Zsh script:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton completions zsh
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Enable dynamic Bash completions:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
source <(COMPLETE=bash acton)
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Inspect generated output without installing it:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton completions zsh | head
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIShell completions guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/commands/shell\-completions>
.RE
