'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-WRAPPER" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-wrapper \[em] Generate Tolk or TypeScript wrappers for a contract
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton wrapper\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIcontract\-name\fR
.sp
\fBacton wrapper\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB\-\-all\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Generate a wrapper for the contract identified by \fB_contract\-name_\fR from
\fBActon.toml\fR\&.
.sp
Use \fB\-\-all\fR to generate wrappers for every contract defined in \fBActon.toml\fR
without picking a single one.
.sp
Wrapper generation uses ABI emitted by the Tolk compiler from the contract source
or from a configured \fBtypes\fR interface file. In practice, the contract header is
the source of truth for typed storage accessors, incoming message helpers, and
generated get\-method bindings.
.sp
The command can also generate a stub test file or emit a TypeScript wrapper for
frontend and tooling integrations.
.sp
For \fB\&.tolk\fR contracts, \fBacton wrapper\fR compiles the selected source directly.
For precompiled \fB\&.boc\fR contracts, it reads code from the BoC and compiles the
configured \fBtypes\fR interface file. A prior \fBacton build\fR run is not required.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Wrapper Options"
.sp
\fIcontract\-name\fR
.RS 4
Contract name from \fBActon.toml\fR to generate the wrapper for. Required unless
\fB\-\-all\fR is given.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-all\fR
.RS 4
Generate wrappers for every contract defined in \fBActon.toml\fR\&.
.sp
Conflicts with \fIcontract\-name\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR, and \fB\-\-test\-output\fR (which
designate a single output file).
.RE
.sp
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write the generated wrapper to an exact path.
.sp
Conflicts with \fB\-\-output\-dir\fR and \fB\-\-all\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-output\-dir\fR \fIdir\fR
.RS 4
Write the generated wrapper to a directory and let Acton choose the file name.
.sp
Conflicts with \fB\-\-output\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Test Stub Options"
.sp
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-test\fR
.RS 4
Generate a stub test file together with the wrapper.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-test\-output\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write the generated test file to an exact path.
.sp
Requires \fB\-\-test\fR\&.
.sp
Conflicts with \fB\-\-all\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-test\-output\-dir\fR \fIdir\fR
.RS 4
Write the generated test file to a directory and let Acton choose the file
name.
.sp
Requires \fB\-\-test\fR\&.
.sp
Conflicts with \fB\-\-test\-output\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "TypeScript Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-ts\fR
.RS 4
Generate a TypeScript wrapper through \fB@ton/tolk\-abi\-to\-typescript@0.5.0\fR\&.
.sp
Conflicts with test stub generation.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "ABI REQUIREMENTS"
Wrapper generation depends on the contract ABI exposed by the Tolk compiler.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBstorage: ...\fR enables typed storage helpers such as \fBfromStorage\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBincomingMessages: ...\fR enables \fBsend{Message}\fR helpers
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'declared get methods are emitted as wrapper methods
.RE
.sp
If \fBincomingMessages\fR is missing, message\-sending helpers are not generated. If
\fBstorage\fR is missing, storage helpers fall back to an untyped initializer.
.SH "TYPESCRIPT GENERATION"
\fBacton wrapper \-\-ts\fR shells out to \fBnpx @ton/tolk\-abi\-to\-typescript@0.5.0\fR\&.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Node.js, npm, and \fBnpx\fR must be available in \fBPATH\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'existing wrapper files at the target path are overwritten
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-ts\fR cannot be combined with \fB\-\-test\fR, \fB\-\-test\-output\fR, or
\fB\-\-test\-output\-dir\fR
.RE
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
Project\-wide defaults can be configured in \fBActon.toml\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
[wrappers.tolk]
output\-dir = "wrappers"
generate\-test = true
test\-output\-dir = "tests"

[wrappers.typescript]
output\-dir = "wrappers\-ts"
.fi
.RE
.sp
CLI flags override config values for the current invocation.
.sp
For a precompiled \fB\&.boc\fR contract, configure \fBtypes\fR next to \fBsrc\fR so wrapper
generation can read ABI from the Tolk interface file:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
[contracts.Precompiled]
src = "contracts/Precompiled.boc"
types = "contracts/Precompiled.types.tolk"
.fi
.RE
.sp
Do not put dependencies on the BoC contract itself: it is already compiled.
Instead, put \fBdepends = ["Precompiled"]\fR on the \fB\&.tolk\fR contract that needs the
BoC code.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: Wrapper generation completed successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: The contract could not be found or compiled, ABI data was missing, the
TypeScript generator could not run, or an output file could not be written.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Generate the default Tolk wrapper:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton wrapper Counter
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Generate a wrapper and stub test:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton wrapper Counter \-\-test
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Generate a TypeScript wrapper:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton wrapper Counter \-\-ts
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Generate into custom locations:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton wrapper Counter \-\-output\-dir tests/generated
acton wrapper Counter \-\-test \-\-test\-output\-dir tests/generated
acton wrapper Counter \-\-ts \-\-output\-dir wrappers\-ts
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Generate a frontend\-oriented TypeScript wrapper layout:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton wrapper Counter \-\-ts \-\-output\-dir app/src/wrappers\-ts
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 6.\h'+01'Generate wrappers for every contract in \fBActon.toml\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton wrapper \-\-all
acton wrapper \-\-all \-\-ts
acton wrapper \-\-all \-\-output\-dir wrappers/generated
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help build\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help test\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIGenerating wrappers guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/testing/generating\-wrappers>
.RE
