'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-INIT" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-init \[em] Initialize Acton support in the current directory
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton init\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Initialize Acton support in the current working directory.
.sp
This command is intended for existing repositories or ad\-hoc directories where
you want to add \fBActon.toml\fR, standard Acton ignore rules, the bundled
standard library, and symlinks to global wallet and library overlays.
.sp
If \fBActon.toml\fR already exists, \fBacton init\fR patches in default mappings when
they are missing instead of creating a fresh scaffold. That patch path rewrites
the parsed manifest, so TOML comments and unknown keys are not preserved.
.sp
If \fBActon.toml\fR does not exist, the command scans \fB\&.tolk\fR files in the current
directory tree and auto\-registers files that define \fBonInternalMessage\fR as
contract entry files.
.SH "IDEMPOTENCY"
\fBacton init\fR is safe to run repeatedly.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'it does not delete and recreate an existing \fBActon.toml\fR, but it may rewrite
the file when backfilling default mappings
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'it backfills default \fBimport\-mappings\fR only when they are missing
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'it appends missing \fB\&.gitignore\fR patterns without deleting existing ones
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'it refreshes \fB\&.acton/tolk\-stdlib\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'it re\-attempts global wallet and library symlinks on each run
.RE
.SH "DISPLAY OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SH "PROJECT OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
This command does not require an existing project manifest for its primary
workflow. It remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-project\-root\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
This command does not require an existing project root for its primary
workflow. It remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "GENERATED AND PATCHED FILES"
\fBacton init\fR can create or update:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBActon.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\&.gitignore\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\&.acton/\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'local symlinks for \fBglobal.wallets.toml\fR and \fBglobal.libraries.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
When \fBActon.toml\fR is created from scratch, it starts from Acton\[cq]s default
project config and may include:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB[package]\fR metadata
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB[fmt]\fR defaults
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'discovered \fB[contracts]\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'default \fB[import\-mappings]\fR
.RE
.sp
When \fBActon.toml\fR already exists, \fBacton init\fR only backfills missing default
\fB[import\-mappings]\fR entries. This patch path reloads the file into Acton\[cq]s typed
config and writes it back out, so comments and unknown keys are dropped.
.sp
When patching \fB\&.gitignore\fR, Acton adds groups for:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Acton artifacts such as \fB\&.acton/\fR, \fBgen/\fR, \fBbuild/\fR, and \fBlcov.info\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'local and global wallet/library overlay files
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\&.env\fR and mnemonic files
.RE
.SH "CONTRACT DISCOVERY"
When generating a new \fBActon.toml\fR, contract discovery:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'walks the current directory recursively
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'skips hidden directories and entries such as \fBnode_modules\fR, \fBtarget\fR, \fB\&.git\fR,
and \fB\&.acton\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'considers \fB\&.tolk\fR files only
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'treats files with an \fBonInternalMessage\fR function as contract entry files
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'derives the contract key from the file stem with \fB\-\fR normalized to \fB_\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'derives the default display name from the file stem by splitting on \fB_\fR and
\fB\-\fR, then capitalizing each word
.RE
.SH "STANDARD LIBRARY"
\fBacton init\fR ensures that the bundled Tolk standard library is installed into
\fB\&.acton/tolk\-stdlib\fR\&.
.sp
If global wallet or library overlay files already exist, \fBacton init\fR also
tries to create local symlinks for them. Existing local files and non\-dangling
symlinks are left in place; Acton only creates the link when the local path
does not already resolve. If the local path is a dangling symlink, Acton still
attempts link creation because the path looks missing, but that attempt
currently warns instead of repairing the dangling link.
.sp
If symlinks for global wallets or libraries cannot be created, Acton prints a
warning and still completes initialization. This is relevant on systems where
symlink creation is restricted.
.SH "SIDE EFFECTS"
\fBacton init\fR writes or patches local project files and may create local
symlinks to global overlay files. It does not modify Git config. When it
patches an existing \fBActon.toml\fR, it rewrites the parsed manifest and may drop
TOML comments or unknown keys; \fB\&.gitignore\fR patching remains append\-only.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: Initialization completed successfully, including no\-op repeat runs.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Manifest parsing, stdlib installation, writing or patching project
files, or another hard filesystem operation failed. Contract discovery skips
unreadable/unparseable \fB\&.tolk\fR files, and overlay symlink failures only warn.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Initialize Acton support in an existing repository:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton init
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Regenerate default mappings in an existing \fBActon.toml\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton init
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Re\-run safely after adding more contracts:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton init
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help new\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help doctor\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIProject initialization guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/project\-init>
.RE
