'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-RUN" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-run \[em] Run a named script from \fBActon.toml\fR
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton run\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIscript\fR [\fIargs\fR\[u2026]]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Run a command from the \fB[scripts]\fR section of \fBActon.toml\fR\&.
.sp
This is similar to \fBnpm run\fR: it lets you define short aliases for common
commands, multi\-step workflows, or shell snippets and then execute them through
Acton.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Run Options"
.sp
\fIscript\fR
.RS 4
Name of the script entry in \fB[scripts]\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fIargs\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Arguments appended to the configured script command.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
Scripts are defined in \fBActon.toml\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
[scripts]
deploy = "acton script scripts/deploy.tolk \-\-broadcast"
test\-unit = "acton test tests/unit"
custom\-task = "echo 'Running custom task...'"
.fi
.RE
.SH "BEHAVIOR"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'extra arguments passed after the script name are appended to the configured
command
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if the script exits non\-zero, \fBacton run\fR exits non\-zero and includes the
nested exit code in the error message
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'on Unix\-like systems scripts are executed via \fBsh \-c\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'on Windows scripts are executed via \fBcmd /C\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'scripts run with the resolved project root as the working directory
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'stdin, stdout, stderr, and environment variables are inherited
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'arguments after \fB_script_\fR are forwarded even when they start with \fB\-\fR; use
\fB\-\-\fR only as an optional visual separator if you prefer
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Acton does not guard against recursive script aliases; avoid scripts that
call themselves through \fBacton run\fR
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The configured script finished successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: The script was missing, the shell could not start it, or the nested
command exited non\-zero. The nested command\[cq]s exit code is reported in the
error message.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Run a configured script:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton run deploy
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Append extra arguments:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton run deploy \-\-net mainnet
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Run a custom shell task:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton run custom\-task
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Use \fB\-\-\fR as an explicit separator if you prefer:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton run deploy \-\- \-\-net testnet
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help script\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIRun command guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/commands/run>
.RE
