'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-VERIFY" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-verify \[em] Verify contract source code on the TON verifier service
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton verify\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIcontract\-name\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Verify that a deployed contract address matches the local source code for a
contract from your project.
.sp
The verification flow compiles local sources, prepares data for the verifier
backend, collects the required signatures, and optionally submits the final
verification transaction to the blockchain.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Verify Options"
.sp
\fIcontract\-name\fR
.RS 4
Contract name to verify.
.sp
If omitted, Acton prompts when the project contains multiple contracts.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-address\fR \fIaddress\fR
.RS 4
Deployed contract address to verify.
.sp
If omitted, Acton prompts for it.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-wallet\fR \fIwallet\fR
.RS 4
Wallet to use for the verification transaction.
.sp
If omitted, Acton auto\-selects the only configured wallet or prompts when
multiple wallets are available.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-compiler\-version\fR \fIversion\fR
.RS 4
Tolk compiler version to request on the verifier side.
.sp
Currently defaults to \fB1.2.0\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
.RS 4
Run verification without submitting the final blockchain transaction.
.RE
.SS "Network Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-net\fR \fInetwork\fR
.RS 4
Network to verify against.
.sp
Defaults to \fBtestnet\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "TONCENTER API KEYS"
Built\-in \fBmainnet\fR/\fBtestnet\fR requests read \fBTONCENTER_MAINNET_API_KEY\fR or
\fBTONCENTER_TESTNET_API_KEY\fR, depending on \fB\-\-net\fR\&.
.sp
Acton loads \fB\&.env\fR automatically, so the simplest setup during project work is
usually to keep these keys there and use shell environment variables only for
one\-off overrides or CI.
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "PROCESS"
Verification usually consists of:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'compiling the local contract
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'calculating the resulting code hash
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'sending sources to a verifier backend
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'collecting the required signatures
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'optionally sending the final verification transaction
.RE
.sp
Acton prepares the local compilation artifacts and uploads them to the
verification service. The final deployed\-code match is established by the
verifier flow itself; \fBacton verify\fR does not first perform a separate local
on\-chain code\-hash comparison against the target address before upload.
.SH "PREREQUISITES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'a \fB\&.tolk\fR contract source in the current project
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'a supported verifier network: \fBtestnet\fR or \fBmainnet\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'verifier backend availability for the selected network
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'a configured wallet, funded when not using \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'reproducible compiler settings that match the deployed contract
.RE
.SH "CONTRACT AND WALLET SELECTION"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if \fB_contract\-name_\fR is omitted and exactly one contract is configured, Acton
selects it automatically
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if multiple contracts are configured, Acton prompts for the contract
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if \fB\-\-wallet\fR is omitted and exactly one wallet is configured, Acton selects
it automatically
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if multiple wallets are configured, Acton prompts for the wallet
.RE
.SH "REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'only \fB\&.tolk\fR sources can be verified
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'precompiled \fB\&.boc\fR contracts cannot be verified
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBlocalnet\fR and \fBcustom:<name>\fR are not supported by verifier backends
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'verification requires a funded wallet when not using \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if a contract with the same code hash is already verified, the backend may
skip the final transaction
.RE
.SH "COST AND BACKEND NOTES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'when \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR is not used, the final verification transaction sends
\fB0.1 TON\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if the verifier backend reports that the contract is already verified, Acton
exits successfully without sending another transaction
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'on successful verification, Acton prints a verifier link for the contract
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT OVERRIDES"
The verification flow also supports backend/debug environment overrides:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBACTON_VERIFY_BACKEND\fR overrides only the initial \fB/source\fR backend used for
source upload
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBACTON_VERIFY_BACKENDS\fR replaces the later signer \fB/sign\fR backend list
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBACTON_VERIFY_DEBUG\fR enables verbose verification diagnostics by presence
alone
.RE
.sp
Backend override values are trimmed and normalized, including removal of a
trailing \fB/\fR\&.
.sp
With \fBACTON_VERIFY_DEBUG\fR, Acton prints:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'compiler version
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'collected source files
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'active source\-backend override
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'active signer\-backend override list
.RE
.sp
Example: debug source upload against a custom backend:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
ACTON_VERIFY_BACKEND=http://127.0.0.1:8080 \(rs
ACTON_VERIFY_DEBUG=1 \(rs
acton verify Counter \-\-address EQDt7LL... \-\-net mainnet \-\-dry\-run
.fi
.RE
.sp
Example: separate source upload from signer backends:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
ACTON_VERIFY_BACKEND=http://127.0.0.1:8080 \(rs
ACTON_VERIFY_BACKENDS=http://127.0.0.1:8081,http://127.0.0.1:8082 \(rs
acton verify Counter \-\-address EQDt7LL... \-\-net mainnet \-\-dry\-run
.fi
.RE
.SH "DRY RUN"
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR still compiles the contract, uploads sources to the verifier
backend, and collects the required signatures. It skips only the final
blockchain transaction.
.SH "RETRIES AND FAILURE HINTS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'source upload is attempted up to 8 times total (initial try plus up to
7 retries) for transient transport failures and backend 5xx responses
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'retry backoff grows from 1 second to 7 seconds between attempts
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'backend error responses are printed with the response body when available
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'5xx failures suggest retrying later and using \fBACTON_VERIFY_DEBUG=1\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'backend problems can also be narrowed down by pointing
\fBACTON_VERIFY_BACKEND\fR at a specific endpoint
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: Verification completed successfully, including successful dry runs and
flows where the backend decides that no final transaction is needed.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Compilation failed, the verifier backend rejected the request, not
enough signatures could be collected, wallet resolution failed, or the final
blockchain transaction could not be sent.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Verify on testnet:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton verify Counter \-\-address EQDt7LL...
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Verify on mainnet:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton verify Counter \-\-address UQDt7LL... \-\-net mainnet
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Use a specific wallet:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton verify Counter \-\-address EQDt7LL... \-\-wallet deployer
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Test the flow without sending the final transaction:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton verify Counter \-\-address EQDt7LL... \-\-dry\-run
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Verify with an explicit compiler version:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton verify Counter \-\-address EQDt7LL... \-\-compiler\-version 1.2.0
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIContract verification guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/contract\-verification>
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIWallet setup guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/setup\-wallets>
.RE
