'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-TEST" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-test \[em] Discover and run Tolk smart contract tests
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton test\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIpath\fR\[u2026]]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Discover and execute tests from \fB\&.test.tolk\fR files.
.sp
The test runner supports filtering, multiple reporters, coverage collection,
gas snapshots, mutation testing, trace export, remote\-state fork mode, and a
browser UI for exploring results.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Discovery Options"
.sp
\fIpath\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Test files or directories to run.
.sp
If omitted, Acton discovers tests from the resolved project root.
.sp
May be passed multiple times.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-filter\fR \fIpattern\fR
.RS 4
Filter tests by regular expression.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fIglob\fR
.RS 4
Exclude test files or directories matching a glob pattern.
.sp
May be passed multiple times.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-include\fR \fIglob\fR
.RS 4
Include only test files or directories matching a glob pattern.
.sp
May be passed multiple times.
.RE
.SS "Execution Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-fail\-fast\fR
.RS 4
Stop after the first failing test.
.sp
Defaults to \fB[test].fail\-fast\fR, or \fBfalse\fR when it is not configured.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-fuzz\-seed\fR \fIseed\fR
.RS 4
Seed for reproducible fuzz runs.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 4
Enable executor debug logs at verbosity level \fB1\fR\&.
.sp
Currently only level \fB1\fR is supported. Pass \fB\-\-verbose\fR at most once.
Use this for low\-level executor output such as \fBdebug.dumpStack()\fR\&. For richer
debug output, use \fB\-\-backtrace full\fR or \fB\-\-debug\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Debugging Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-debug\fR
.RS 4
Enable debug mode.
.sp
This also raises executor verbosity to collect full source locations and stack
context for live stepping.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-debug\-port\fR \fIport\fR
.RS 4
Debug server port.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-backtrace\fR \fIlevel\fR
.RS 4
Enable execution backtraces.
.sp
Currently supported value: \fBfull\fR\&.
Full backtraces also raise executor verbosity to collect source locations and
call stacks without opening the debugger.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-capture\fR
.RS 4
Print test \fBprintln\fR and \fBeprintln\fR output as it is produced.
.sp
The output is still captured for reporters such as JUnit and the test UI.
Executor debug logs from \fB\-\-verbose\fR, including \fBdebug.dumpStack()\fR, are not
printed live by this flag.
.sp
This flag is not supported with \fB\-\-mutate\fR, because mutation testing executes
child test processes and captures their output for mutation reports.
.RE
.SS "Coverage Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-coverage\fR
.RS 4
Generate a coverage profile.
.sp
Coverage also raises internal executor verbosity enough to map executed
locations back to source files and lines, but it does not enable stepping or
print backtraces by itself.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-coverage\-format\fR \fIformat\fR
.RS 4
Coverage output format.
.sp
Possible values: \fBlcov\fR, \fBtext\fR
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-coverage\-file\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Output file for the coverage report.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-coverage\-minimum\-percent\fR \fIpercent\fR
.RS 4
Fail when the final coverage score is below this percentage.
.sp
Valid range: \fB0\fR to \fB100\fR\&.
.sp
Ignored with \fB\-\-ui\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-coverage\-include\-wrappers\fR
.RS 4
Include files from the \fB@wrappers\fR mapping in coverage reports.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-coverage\-include\-tests\fR
.RS 4
Include \fB\&.test.tolk\fR files in coverage reports.
.RE
.SS "Profiling Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-snapshot\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write gas usage statistics to a JSON snapshot file.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-baseline\-snapshot\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Compare gas usage with a baseline snapshot.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-fail\-on\-diff\fR
.RS 4
Exit non\-zero when the current run differs from the baseline snapshot.
.sp
Requires \fB\-\-baseline\-snapshot\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-gas\-profile\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write a gas\-weighted execution profile.
.sp
By default, Acton records contract transactions produced by test messages.
Combine with \fB\-\-ui\fR to browse the profile as a flamegraph in the Test UI.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-gas\-profile\-format\fR \fIformat\fR
.RS 4
Execution profile output format.
.sp
Possible values: \fBcpuprofile\fR, \fBcollapsed\fR\&.
Defaults to \fBcpuprofile\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-gas\-profile\-include\-tests\fR
.RS 4
Include \fB\&.test.tolk\fR unit\-test get\-method execution in the gas profile.
.sp
Use this when the expensive work is called directly from a unit test instead of
through a contract message transaction.
.RE
.SS "Reporting Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-reporter\fR \fIformat\fR[,\fIformat\fR\[u2026]]_
.RS 4
Report format list.
.sp
Possible values: \fBconsole\fR, \fBteamcity\fR, \fBjunit\fR, \fBdot\fR
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-show\-bodies\fR
.RS 4
Show decoded message bodies in printed transaction trees when ABI is known.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-junit\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Output directory for JUnit XML reports.
.sp
Defaults to \fB[test].junit\-path\fR, or \fBtest\-results\fR when it is not configured.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-junit\-merge\fR
.RS 4
Merge all test suites into a single JUnit XML file.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-ui\fR
.RS 4
Open test results in a browser UI.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-ui\-port\fR \fIport\fR
.RS 4
Port for the browser UI server.
.sp
Defaults to \fB[test].ui\-port\fR, or \fB12344\fR when it is not configured.
.RE
.SS "Cache Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-clear\-cache\fR
.RS 4
Clear the compilation cache before running tests.
.sp
Defaults to \fBfalse\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Remote Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-fork\-net\fR \fInetwork\fR
.RS 4
Fork remote blockchain state for account resolution.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-fork\-block\-number\fR \fIseqno\fR
.RS 4
Historical block sequence number to fork from.
.sp
When a fork block number is set, Acton caches resolved remote accounts under
\fBbuild/cache/<network>/<seqno>/<workchain>_<address\-hash>.json\fR\&. Later test
runs with the same fork network, block number, and address read that file before
calling the remote API.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-fork\-cache\fR
.RS 4
Disable persistent account cache for pinned fork block numbers. Use this when
you want every test run to fetch forked accounts from the remote API. The
regular \fB\-\-clear\-cache\fR flag removes this cache together with the rest of
\fBbuild/cache\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Tracing Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-save\-test\-trace\fR [\fIdir\fR]
.RS 4
Save transaction traces to a directory.
.sp
If passed without a value, Acton uses \fBbuild/traces\fR\&.
Acton writes one \fB<test\-name>_trace.json\fR file per executed test and stores
shared contract metadata under \fBcontracts/<contract\-name>.json\fR\&.
These filenames are derived only from the test name and contract name, so
duplicate names overwrite earlier artifacts in the same output directory.
Relative paths are resolved from the project root.
.sp
The Test UI also enables the default \fBbuild/traces\fR directory when trace export
is not configured explicitly, including when UI is enabled through \fB[test].ui\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Mutation Testing Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-mutate\fR
.RS 4
Run tests in mutation testing mode.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-mutate\-contract\fR \fIcontract\-name\fR
.RS 4
Contract name to mutate during mutation testing.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-mutation\-diff\fR \fImode\fR
.RS 4
Limit mutation testing to changed lines in the selected diff scope.
.sp
Accepted values: \fBworktree\fR, \fBref\fR, \fBbranch\fR\&.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBworktree\fR compares the current worktree with \fBHEAD\fR and includes untracked
files
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBref\fR compares against the explicit ref passed with \fB\-\-mutation\-diff\-ref\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBbranch\fR compares against the merge\-base with the current branch upstream, or
against \fB\-\-mutation\-diff\-ref\fR when provided
.RE
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-mutation\-diff\-ref\fR \fIref\fR
.RS 4
Base ref used by diff\-based mutation testing modes.
.sp
Required with \fB\-\-mutation\-diff ref\fR\&. Optional with \fB\-\-mutation\-diff branch\fR\&.
Use it with \fBbranch\fR when the current branch has no upstream or when you want a
different comparison base such as \fBorigin/main\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-mutation\-levels\fR \fIlevel[,level\[u2026]]\fR
.RS 4
Run only selected mutation levels.
.sp
Accepted values: \fBcritical\fR, \fBmajor\fR, \fBminor\fR\&.
Useful for faster local runs such as \fBcritical,major\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-mutation\-rules\-file\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Load custom query\-based mutation rules from a JSON file.
.sp
Custom rules are merged with built\-in rules. If a custom rule uses the same
rule ID, it overrides the built\-in one. Relative paths are resolved from the
project root.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-mutation\-session\-id\fR \fIid\fR
.RS 4
Use a specific mutation session ID for progress logging and resume.
.sp
Acton writes append\-only JSON Lines progress to
\fBbuild/mutation\-sessions/<ID>.jsonl\fR\&. Re\-run with the same session ID and the
same mutation filters to continue an unfinished session.
If you stop the run with \fBCtrl+C\fR, Acton prints a resume command that includes
the same session ID.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-mutation\-workers\fR \fIcount\fR
.RS 4
Override the number of mutation workers.
.sp
By default, Acton uses the host\[cq]s available parallelism. Each worker keeps its
own isolated mutation workspace and reuses it across multiple mutants.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-mutation\-id\fR \fIid\fR
.RS 4
Run only specific mutation IDs from a previous mutation report.
.sp
Pass the mutation number shown in the report, and use the same mutation filters
such as \fB\-\-mutation\-diff\fR, \fB\-\-mutation\-levels\fR, and \fB\-\-mutation\-disable\-rules\fR as the
original run. May be passed multiple times or as a comma\-separated list.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-mutation\-minimum\-percent\fR \fIpercent\fR
.RS 4
Fail if mutation score is below this percentage.
.sp
Valid range: \fB0..=100\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-mutation\-disable\-rules\fR \fIrule\fR
.RS 4
Disable a specific mutation rule.
.sp
May be passed multiple times.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "TONCENTER API KEYS"
When tests fork from the built\-in \fBmainnet\fR/\fBtestnet\fR backends, authenticated
requests read \fBTONCENTER_MAINNET_API_KEY\fR or \fBTONCENTER_TESTNET_API_KEY\fR\&.
.sp
When tests fork from \fBcustom:<name>\fR, Acton reads \fB<NORMALIZED_NAME>_API_KEY\fR\&.
Custom network names are uppercased and non\-alphanumeric characters are
replaced with \fB_\fR, so \fBcustom:mock\-remote\fR becomes \fBMOCK_REMOTE_API_KEY\fR\&.
.sp
Acton loads \fB\&.env\fR automatically, so the simplest setup during project work is
usually to keep these keys there and use shell environment variables only for
one\-off overrides or CI.
.SH "DISCOVERY"
Acton discovers tests by finding files that end with \fB\&.test.tolk\fR\&.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'If \fB_path_\fR is omitted, discovery starts at the resolved project root
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'If \fB_path_\fR is a directory, search is recursive
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Relative \fB_path_\fR values are resolved from the current working directory
.RE
.SH "REPORTING AND ARTIFACTS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-reporter\fR on the CLI overrides \fB[test].reporter\fR for the current run
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-ui\fR adds the browser UI in addition to text reporters
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-coverage \-\-ui\fR adds a \fBCoverage\fR tab to the browser UI for browsing
coverage summaries, files, and annotated source
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-gas\-profile \-\-ui\fR adds a \fBProfile\fR tab to the browser UI; the top\-level
view is grouped by contract, and selected tests with recorded samples get a
per\-test profile next to \fBInfo\fR, \fBTransactions\fR, and \fBLogs\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-junit\-path\fR matters when the JUnit reporter is enabled; it defaults to
\fB[test].junit\-path\fR, or \fBtest\-results\fR when it is not configured
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-no\-capture\fR prints \fBprintln\fR and \fBeprintln\fR output during the test run,
while keeping captured stdout and stderr available to non\-console reporters
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'executor debug logs are hidden by default; re\-run with \fB\-\-verbose\fR when you need
level\-1 executor output such as \fBdebug.dumpStack()\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-verbose\fR is only low\-level executor logging; \fB\-\-coverage\fR also collects
source\-location data, while \fB\-\-backtrace full\fR and \fB\-\-debug\fR collect richer
location and stack data
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-coverage\-file\fR matters only with \fB\-\-coverage\fR; without an explicit path,
Acton writes \fBlcov.info\fR for \fBlcov\fR and \fBcoverage.txt\fR for \fBtext\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'coverage summaries show line and branch columns plus a blended \fBScore\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'LCOV export includes \fBBRDA\fR, \fBBRF\fR, and \fBBRH\fR records when branch sites were
observed for a file
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-coverage\-minimum\-percent\fR checks the final blended \fBScore\fR shown in the
summary, not just \fB% Lines\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'coverage excludes files under \fBtests/\fR, \fB\&.test.tolk\fR files, and \fB@wrappers\fR
sources by default;
use \fB\-\-coverage\-include\-tests\fR or \fB\-\-coverage\-include\-wrappers\fR to opt in
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-save\-test\-trace\fR without a value writes traces to \fBbuild/traces\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'each executed test produces its own \fB<test\-name>_trace.json\fR artifact
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'exported bundles also include \fBcontracts/<contract\-name>.json\fR files with
code, source maps, and ABI metadata reused across tests in the same bundle
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'trace chains default to names like \fBTrace 1\fR; use \fBtxs.giveName("...")\fR when
you want stable human\-readable names in exported artifacts and the Test UI
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'when you split execution with \fBtesting.createTraceIterationCursor()\fR,
exported traces still merge batches that belong to the same logical root
transaction chain
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-ui\fR also enables the default trace bundle directory when
\fB\-\-save\-test\-trace\fR is otherwise absent
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'gas snapshot files are written only to the explicit paths passed to
\fB\-\-snapshot\fR or \fB\-\-baseline\-snapshot\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'gas execution profiles are written only to the explicit path passed to
\fB\-\-gas\-profile\fR; relative paths are resolved from the project root
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-gas\-profile\-format cpuprofile\fR writes Chrome DevTools\-compatible JSON;
\fB\-\-gas\-profile\-format collapsed\fR writes folded stacks for flamegraph\-style
tooling
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-gas\-profile\-include\-tests\fR records \fB\&.test.tolk\fR unit\-test get\-method
execution; the Test UI hides Acton runtime frames from the per\-test profile,
but exported \fBcpuprofile\fR and \fBcollapsed\fR files remain complete
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB[test.fuzz]\fR applies only to parameterized tests that explicitly opt in with
\fB@test.fuzz\fR, \fB@test.fuzz(<runs>)\fR, or \fB@test.fuzz({ ... })\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-fuzz\-seed\fR overrides \fB[test.fuzz].seed\fR for the current run
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'fuzz tests show the seed in console output; if \fB[test.fuzz].seed\fR is omitted,
Acton picks a new seed for each \fBacton test\fR run
.RE
.SH "DOT REPORTER"
Use \fBdot\fR when you want compact progress output but still need full failure
diagnostics at the end of the run:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-reporter dot
.fi
.RE
.sp
The progress line uses one character per test:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\[u00B7]\fR passed
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBx\fR failed
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\[u25CB]\fR skipped
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\[u25A1]\fR todo
.RE
.sp
When a test fails, the dot reporter prints the same important diagnostics as the
console reporter after the progress line: assertion diffs, transaction trees,
get\-method errors, fuzz seed and input values, stdout/stderr, and source
locations. With \fB\-\-backtrace full\fR, runtime failures also include backtrace
frames:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-reporter dot \-\-backtrace full
.fi
.RE
.sp
If coverage is enabled, dot failure details are printed before the coverage
summary so the failing test remains visible near the progress output.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
Defaults can be configured in \fBActon.toml\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
[test]
reporter = ["console"]
filter = ".*jetton.*"
junit\-path = "reports"
junit\-merge = false
gas\-profile = "build/gas.cpuprofile"
gas\-profile\-format = "cpuprofile"
gas\-profile\-include\-tests = false

[test.fuzz]
runs = 512
max\-test\-rejects = 4096
seed = 42

[test.coverage]
enabled = true
# valid range: 0..=100
minimum\-percent = 85
include\-tests = true
include\-wrappers = true

[test.mutation]
diff = "branch"
diff\-ref = "origin/main"
mutation\-levels = ["critical", "major"]
minimum\-percent = 85
disable\-rules = ["replace_plus_with_minus"]
.fi
.RE
.sp
CLI flags override config values for the current invocation.
.SH "NOTES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'If both \fB\-\-snapshot\fR and \fB\-\-baseline\-snapshot\fR are provided, Acton runs in
comparison mode and does not overwrite the snapshot file
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-fail\-on\-diff\fR requires \fB\-\-baseline\-snapshot\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-gas\-profile\-format\fR and \fB\-\-gas\-profile\-include\-tests\fR affect output only
when \fB\-\-gas\-profile\fR or \fB[test].gas\-profile\fR is configured
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'The UI and trace export features are useful for debugging failing tests and
inspecting transaction trees
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Test UI writes trace bundles to \fBbuild/traces\fR by default unless
\fB\-\-save\-test\-trace\fR or \fB[test].save\-test\-trace\fR chooses another directory
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'You can combine \fB\-\-coverage\fR and \fB\-\-ui\fR to inspect the current run\[cq]s coverage
directly in the browser UI
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-coverage\-minimum\-percent\fR and \fB[test.coverage].minimum\-percent\fR are ignored
when \fB\-\-ui\fR is enabled
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-fork\-net\fR keeps execution local while resolving blockchain state remotely
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-mutation\-diff worktree\fR is intended for uncommitted local changes
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-mutation\-diff ref\fR requires \fB\-\-mutation\-diff\-ref\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-mutation\-diff branch\fR uses the upstream branch merge\-base by default
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-mutation\-rules\-file\fR loads custom query\-based rules from JSON and custom
rules override built\-in rules with the same ID
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-mutation\-session\-id\fR writes append\-only JSONL progress to
\fBbuild/mutation\-sessions/<ID>.jsonl\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-mutation\-workers\fR defaults to the host\[cq]s available parallelism; each
worker reuses its own isolated mutation workspace
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'pressing \fBCtrl+C\fR during mutation testing stops the run without finalizing the
session and prints a resume command for the same session ID
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-mutation\-id\fR expects mutation numbers from a previous run with the same mutation
filters and session selection
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'mutation scores in filtered runs only cover the selected mutants
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-mutation\-minimum\-percent\fR and \fB[test.mutation].minimum\-percent\fR apply to
that filtered mutation score after compile errors are excluded
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: All selected tests passed, or a non\-mutating reporting mode completed
successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: At least one test failed, profiling drift was detected with
\fB\-\-fail\-on\-diff\fR, line coverage was below the configured minimum in non\-UI
coverage mode, mutation score was below the configured minimum in mutation
mode, no tests matched after filtering, or infrastructure such as
compilation, trace export, UI startup, or remote\-state resolution failed.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Run all tests:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Run selected test files/directories:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test tests/wallet.test.tolk tests/jetton
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Filter tests by name:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-filter "wallet.*"
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Show executor debug logs from \fBdebug.*\fR helpers:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-verbose \-\-filter "debug.*"
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Generate coverage and JUnit output:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-coverage \-\-coverage\-format lcov \-\-reporter junit \(rs
                                             \-\-junit\-path test\-results
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 6.\h'+01'Fail the run when line coverage drops below 85%:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-coverage \-\-coverage\-minimum\-percent 85
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 7.\h'+01'Compare gas usage against a baseline:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-baseline\-snapshot build/gas\-baseline.json \-\-fail\-on\-diff
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 8.\h'+01'Write a collapsed gas execution profile:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-gas\-profile build/gas.collapsed \-\-gas\-profile\-format collapsed
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 9.\h'+01'Open Test UI with gas profile flamegraphs:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-gas\-profile build/gas.cpuprofile \-\-ui
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 10.\h'+01'Run mutation testing for one contract:
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-mutate \-\-mutate\-contract Wallet
.fi
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 11.\h'+01'Run mutation testing only for changed lines in the current worktree:
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-mutate \-\-mutate\-contract Wallet \-\-mutation\-diff worktree
.fi
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 12.\h'+01'Run mutation testing for selected levels on the current branch:
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-mutate \-\-mutate\-contract Wallet \-\-mutation\-diff branch \(rs
                                             \-\-mutation\-levels critical,major
.fi
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 13.\h'+01'Re\-run one specific mutant from a previous report:
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-mutate \-\-mutate\-contract Wallet \-\-mutation\-id 2
.fi
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 14.\h'+01'Resume an unfinished mutation session:
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-mutate \-\-mutate\-contract Wallet \-\-mutation\-session\-id wallet\-pr\-42 \(rs
                                             \-\-mutation\-diff worktree
.fi
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 15.\h'+01'Fail the run when mutation score drops below 85%:
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-mutate \-\-mutate\-contract Wallet \-\-mutation\-minimum\-percent 85
.fi
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 16.\h'+01'Limit mutation testing to four workers:
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-mutate \-\-mutate\-contract Wallet \-\-mutation\-workers 4
.fi
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 17.\h'+01'Debug a forked\-state failure with traces and the UI:
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test tests/wallet.test.tolk \-\-fork\-net testnet \(rs
                                  \-\-fork\-block\-number 55000000 \(rs
                                  \-\-save\-test\-trace \-\-ui
.fi
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 18.\h'+01'Enforce a gas baseline in CI:
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton test \-\-baseline\-snapshot build/gas\-baseline.json \-\-fail\-on\-diff \(rs
                                                       \-\-reporter console,junit
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help wrapper\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fITest runner guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/testing/overview>
.RE
