'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-SCRIPT" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-script \[em] Execute a standalone Tolk script file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton script\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIpath\fR [\fIargs\fR\[u2026]]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Execute a standalone Tolk script.
.sp
Scripts are useful for experimentation, deployment flows, blockchain queries,
and one\-off operational tasks. Unlike tests, scripts use a \fBmain()\fR entry point
and can send real transactions when \fB\-\-net\fR is provided.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Script Options"
.sp
\fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the script file to execute.
.RE
.sp
\fIargs\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Arguments parsed against the \fBmain()\fR ABI and passed to the script.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
.RS 4
Enable executor debug logs at verbosity level \fB1\fR\&.
.sp
Currently only level \fB1\fR is supported. Pass \fB\-\-verbose\fR at most once.
Use this for low\-level executor output such as \fBdebug.dumpStack()\fR\&. For richer
debug output, use \fB\-\-backtrace full\fR or \fB\-\-debug\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Debugging Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-debug\fR
.RS 4
Enable debug mode.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-backtrace\fR \fIlevel\fR
.RS 4
Enable execution backtraces.
.sp
Currently supported value: \fBfull\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-debug\-port\fR \fIport\fR
.RS 4
Debug server port.
.RE
.SS "Cache Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-clear\-cache\fR
.RS 4
Clear the compilation cache before running.
.RE
.SS "Remote Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-fork\-net\fR \fInetwork\fR
.RS 4
Fork blockchain state from a remote network for local execution.
When \fB\-\-net\fR is set, omitted \fB\-\-fork\-net\fR defaults to the selected broadcast
network.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-fork\-block\-number\fR \fIseqno\fR
.RS 4
Historical block sequence number to fork from.
.sp
When a fork block number is set, Acton caches resolved remote accounts under
\fBbuild/cache/<network>/<seqno>/<workchain>_<address\-hash>.json\fR\&. Later script
runs with the same fork network, block number, and address read that file before
calling the remote API.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-fork\-cache\fR
.RS 4
Disable persistent account cache for pinned fork block numbers. Use this when
you want every script run to fetch forked accounts from the remote API. The
regular \fB\-\-clear\-cache\fR flag removes this cache together with the rest of
\fBbuild/cache\fR\&.
.RE
.SS "Broadcasting Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-net\fR \fInetwork\fR
.RS 4
Broadcast to the selected network. If omitted, the script runs in emulation
mode. Conflicting \fB\-\-net\fR and \fB\-\-fork\-net\fR values are rejected.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-tonconnect\fR
.RS 4
Use TON Connect wallet approval for broadcast messages.
.sp
This opens a local browser page, connects a wallet, and sends \fBnet.send(...)\fR
messages through that wallet instead of loading local wallet mnemonics.
The TON Connect session is saved under \fBbuild/sessions/tonconnect/<network>.json\fR and
reused by later runs in the same project. Currently supported only with
\fB\-\-net mainnet\fR or \fB\-\-net testnet\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-tonconnect\-port\fR \fIport\fR
.RS 4
Local TON Connect page port. Defaults to \fB52258\fR\&.
.sp
Acton keeps this port stable so injected wallets can recognize the same local
dApp on later runs. If the default port is busy, pass another port explicitly
and keep using the same value for that project.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-explorer\fR \fIname\fR
.RS 4
Explorer to use for transaction links.
.sp
Possible values: \fBtonscan\fR, \fBtoncx\fR, \fBdton\fR, \fBtonviewer\fR
.RE
.SS "Output Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-show\-bodies\fR
.RS 4
Show decoded message bodies in printed transaction trees when ABI is known.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "SCRIPT MODEL"
A Tolk script defines a \fBmain()\fR function and runs as an isolated execution.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'state is not preserved between runs
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'local execution uses emulator wallets and balances
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-fork\-net\fR keeps execution local but resolves remote state
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-net\fR sends real transactions using configured wallets
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-net ... \-\-tonconnect\fR sends real transactions through the connected TON Connect wallet
.RE
.sp
Wallet names referenced by the script are resolved from the merged wallet
configuration, with local \fBwallets.toml\fR entries overriding
\fBglobal.wallets.toml\fR on name conflicts. With \fB\-\-tonconnect\fR, any
\fBscripts.wallet("name")\fR call resolves to the connected wallet address.
Acton saves the TON Connect session in \fBbuild/sessions/tonconnect/<network>.json\fR, so
the next script run can restore the wallet connection without asking the user
to connect again.
.SH "ARGUMENT FORWARDING"
Arguments after \fB_path_\fR are passed through to the script runtime.
.sp
If a forwarded argument could be mistaken for an Acton flag, insert \fB\-\-\fR before
the script arguments:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton script scripts/query.tolk \-\- \-\-net\-like\-value
.fi
.RE
.SH "SCRIPT ARGUMENTS"
Forwarded arguments are parsed against the ABI for \fBmain()\fR\&.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the number of CLI arguments must exactly match the \fBmain()\fR parameters
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'integers use Tolk integer literal syntax such as \fB42\fR, \fB\-1\fR, \fB0xff\fR, and \fB0b1010\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBbool\fR accepts \fBtrue\fR and \fBfalse\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'nullable supported types accept \fBnull\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBcell\fR, \fBslice\fR, and \fBbitsN\fR accept plain BoC hex without \fBC{}\fR or \fBCS{}\fR prefixes
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBany_address\fR accepts an internal address or the \fBaddr_none\fR literal
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'arrays accept \fB[item1, item2]\fR
.RE
.sp
Unsupported parameter types currently include \fBstructs\fR, \fBtuple\fR, \fBmap\fR,
\fBdict\fR, \fBbuilder\fR and other complex types.
.SH "SIDE EFFECTS"
\fBacton script\fR always compiles and executes the selected script. With
\fB\-\-net\fR, it can send real blockchain transactions; without \fB\-\-net\fR, execution
stays local even when \fB\-\-fork\-net\fR is used.
.sp
Executor debug logs are hidden by default. Re\-run with \fB\-\-verbose\fR when you need
level\-1 executor output such as \fBdebug.dumpStack()\fR\&.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The script completed successfully, including successful broadcast flows.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Script execution failed, broadcast submission failed, or remote network
access such as fork\-state resolution failed.
.RE
.SH "SAFE EXECUTION ORDER"
When a script can affect on\-chain state, the usual safe sequence is:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'\fBacton build\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'\fBacton test\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'\fBacton script <path>\fR without \fB\-\-net\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'only then \fBacton script <path> \-\-net testnet\fR
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Execute locally in the emulator:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton script scripts/deploy.tolk
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Show executor debug logs from \fBdebug.*\fR helpers:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton script scripts/deploy.tolk \-\-verbose
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Broadcast to testnet:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton script scripts/deploy.tolk \-\-net testnet
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Query mainnet state without broadcasting:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
TONCENTER_MAINNET_API_KEY=your\-key acton script query.tolk \-\-fork\-net mainnet
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Run against a protected localnet:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
ACTON_LOCALNET_AUTH_TOKEN=localnet\-token acton script scripts/deploy.tolk \-\-net localnet
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 6.\h'+01'Broadcast a deploy flow and print explorer links:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton script scripts/deploy.tolk \-\-net testnet \-\-explorer tonscan
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 7.\h'+01'Broadcast through TON Connect instead of local wallet keys:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton script scripts/deploy.tolk \-\-net testnet \-\-tonconnect
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "TONCENTER API KEYS"
Built\-in \fBmainnet\fR/\fBtestnet\fR requests read \fBTONCENTER_MAINNET_API_KEY\fR or
\fBTONCENTER_TESTNET_API_KEY\fR, depending on the selected network.
.sp
Protected \fBlocalnet\fR requests read \fBACTON_LOCALNET_AUTH_TOKEN\fR\&. Use the token
printed by \fBacton localnet start \-\-require\-auth\fR\&.
.sp
For \fBcustom:<name>\fR, Acton reads \fB<NORMALIZED_NAME>_API_KEY\fR\&. Custom network
names are uppercased and non\-alphanumeric characters are replaced with \fB_\fR, so
\fBcustom:mock\-remote\fR becomes \fBMOCK_REMOTE_API_KEY\fR\&.
.sp
Acton loads \fB\&.env\fR automatically, so the simplest setup during project work is
usually to keep these keys there and use shell environment variables only for
one\-off overrides or CI.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help run\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIScripting guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/scripting/overview>
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIWallet setup\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/wallets>
.RE
