'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-NEW" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-new \[em] Create a new Acton project
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton new\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIpath\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Create a new Acton project in the given directory.
.sp
The command creates the target directory if it does not exist, copies the
selected template scaffold, writes starter project files such as \fBActon.toml\fR,
\fB\&.env.example\fR, \fB\&.editorconfig\fR, and \fB\&.gitignore\fR, installs the bundled standard
library, and optionally initializes Git hooks and \fBAGENTS.md\fR guidance.
.sp
If \fB_path_\fR already exists as a directory, \fBacton new\fR fails instead of trying
to merge into that directory, even when it is empty. \fBacton new .\fR is the
explicit exception: it scaffolds into the current directory and may overwrite
existing files whose paths collide with the selected template.
.sp
If \fBgit\fR is available in \fBPATH\fR, \fBacton new\fR runs \fBgit init\fR in the project
directory and then runs \fBgit add .\fR, which stages all current\-directory
changes, not only files created by the scaffold.
.sp
The command does not create an initial commit.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "New Options"
.sp
\fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Directory to create the project in. Use \fB\&.\fR to create a new project in the
current directory.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-name\fR \fIname\fR
.RS 4
Project name. If not provided, interactive mode prompts for it and defaults to
the target directory name.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-description\fR \fIdescription\fR
.RS 4
Project description written to \fBActon.toml\fR\&. If not provided, Acton uses
\fBA TON blockchain project\fR by default. In interactive mode you can override it
after opting into advanced options.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-template\fR \fItemplate\fR
.RS 4
Project template to use.
.sp
Possible values: \fBempty\fR, \fBcounter\fR, \fBjetton\fR, \fBnft\fR, \fBw5\-extension\fR
.sp
If not provided, interactive mode prompts for the template.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-license\fR \fIlicense\fR
.RS 4
License identifier to place into \fBActon.toml\fR and use for the generated
\fBLICENSE\fR file when Acton has a built\-in template for that license.
.sp
If not provided, Acton uses \fBMIT\fR by default. In interactive mode you can
override it after opting into advanced options.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-app\fR
.RS 4
Include the template\[cq]s TypeScript app scaffold when available.
.sp
All built\-in templates currently support the app layout: \fBempty\fR, \fBcounter\fR,
\fBjetton\fR, \fBnft\fR, and \fBw5\-extension\fR\&. If you pass \fB\-\-app\fR for a template that does
not support it, \fBacton new\fR fails.
.sp
If the selected template supports the app layout and \fB\-\-app\fR is not provided,
interactive mode prompts for this choice. Non\-interactive mode leaves the app
layout disabled unless \fB\-\-app\fR is passed explicitly.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-hooks\fR
.RS 4
Create and install the default project\-local Git hooks.
.sp
If \fBgit\fR is available and \fB\-\-hooks\fR is not provided, interactive mode offers
this choice after you opt into advanced options. Non\-interactive mode leaves
hooks disabled unless \fB\-\-hooks\fR is passed explicitly.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-agents\fR
.RS 4
Include an \fBAGENTS.md\fR file with coding\-agent guidance from the selected
template.
.sp
If \fB\-\-agents\fR is not provided, interactive mode offers this choice after you
opt into advanced options. Non\-interactive mode leaves \fBAGENTS.md\fR disabled
unless \fB\-\-agents\fR is passed explicitly.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
\fBacton new\fR creates a project and does not require an existing \fBActon.toml\fR\&.
The command does not resolve a project manifest before running, and this option
remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-project\-root\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
\fBacton new\fR creates a project and does not require an existing project root.
The command does not resolve a project root before running, and this option
remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "TEMPLATES"
.SS "empty"
Minimal project skeleton with:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'one starter contract
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'generated wrapper and tests
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'deployment script
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'CI workflow
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'optional \fBAGENTS.md\fR
.RE
.SS "counter"
Counter contract template with:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'one contract, wrapper, and tests
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'deployment script
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'CI workflow
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'optional \fBAGENTS.md\fR
.RE
.SS "jetton"
Jetton minter and wallet template with:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'multi\-contract scaffold
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'wrappers and tests
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'deployment script
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'CI workflow
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'optional \fBAGENTS.md\fR
.RE
.SS "nft"
NFT collection and item template with:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'collection and item contracts
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'wrappers and tests
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'deployment scripts
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'CI workflow
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'optional \fBAGENTS.md\fR
.RE
.SS "w5-extension"
Wallet V5 extension contract and subscription example template with:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the extension contract and shared types
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'vendored Wallet V5 sources for end\-to\-end testing
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'extension and Wallet V5 wrappers
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'integration tests for install, payment, and cancellation flows
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'deploy, install, and delete scripts
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'CI workflow
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'optional \fBAGENTS.md\fR
.RE
.sp
All built\-in templates support the optional TypeScript app layout with \fB\-\-app\fR:
\fBempty\fR, \fBcounter\fR, \fBjetton\fR, \fBnft\fR, and \fBw5\-extension\fR\&.
.sp
With \fB\-\-app\fR, Acton also creates a Vite\-based React app and top\-level npm
metadata files. App templates with frontend contract flows also include
generated TypeScript wrappers.
.SH "INTERACTIVE MODE"
When enough information is missing and standard input/output are connected to a
terminal, \fBacton new\fR uses a short default flow:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'project name
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'template
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'whether to include the TypeScript app layout when the template supports it
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'whether to configure advanced options
.RE
.sp
If you opt into advanced options, Acton can then prompt for:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'description
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'license
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'whether to install the default Git hooks when \fBgit\fR is available
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'whether to include \fBAGENTS.md\fR
.RE
.sp
If you skip advanced options, Acton keeps the default description \fBA TON blockchain project\fR, the default license \fBMIT\fR, and leaves optional features
disabled unless their flags are passed explicitly.
.sp
In non\-interactive mode, optional features stay disabled unless their flags are
passed explicitly. For CI or scripts, pass \fB\-\-name\fR, \fB\-\-description\fR,
\fB\-\-template\fR, and \fB\-\-license\fR if you want to avoid prompts entirely.
.SH "FILES"
The generated project always includes:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBActon.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\&.acton/\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\&.env.example\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\&.editorconfig\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\&.gitignore\fR
.RE
.sp
Depending on the selected template and options, Acton may also generate:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'contract sources
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'tests
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'wrappers
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'wrappers that usually include helper shapes such as \fBfromStorage(...)\fR,
\fBdeploy(...)\fR, \fBsend{Name}(...)\fR, \fBsendAny(...)\fR, and typed get\-method calls
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'deployment and management scripts
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB[scripts]\fR aliases such as \fBdeploy\-emulation\fR, \fBdeploy\-testnet\fR, and
template\-specific management aliases in \fBActon.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'frontend files for \fB\-\-app\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\&.githooks/pre\-commit\fR for \fB\-\-hooks\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBAGENTS.md\fR for \fB\-\-agents\fR
.RE
.SH "TYPESCRIPT APP LAYOUT"
When \fB\-\-app\fR is used with a template that supports the app layout, the project
includes:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBcontracts/src\fR for contract sources and shared Tolk types
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBcontracts/tests\fR for tests
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBcontracts/wrappers\fR for generated Tolk wrappers
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBcontracts/scripts\fR for deployment and utility scripts
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBwrappers\-ts/\fR for generated TypeScript wrappers in app templates that call
contracts from the frontend
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBapp/\fR for the React + Vite frontend
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'top\-level \fBpackage.json\fR and \fBpackage\-lock.json\fR for the frontend toolchain
.RE
.sp
Before running frontend commands, install the app dependencies:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
npm ci
.fi
.RE
.sp
The generated app scaffold is a real frontend workspace, not just static demo
files. After \fBnpm ci\fR, use the usual frontend lifecycle commands from the
generated \fBpackage.json\fR alongside normal Acton contract commands.
.sp
Common commands in that generated app workspace:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBnpm run dev\fR to start the Vite development server
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBnpm run build\fR to build the frontend bundle; contract\-aware app templates run
\fBacton build\fR first
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBnpm run typecheck\fR for TypeScript checking
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBnpm run fmt\fR and \fBnpm run fmt:check\fR for frontend formatting
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBnpm run test\fR to run the bundled \fBacton test\fR command when the template provides
it
.RE
.SH "SIDE EFFECTS"
\fBacton new\fR writes only inside the chosen target directory. When \fB_path_\fR is
\fB\&.\fR, that means the current directory itself, and existing files with the same
paths as template files can be overwritten.
.sp
It also installs \fB\&.acton/tolk\-stdlib\fR there unless
\fBACTON_DISABLE_AUTO_STDLIB=1\fR is set, may create \fB\&.githooks/\fR plus an
\fBAGENTS.md\fR file when requested, and, when \fBgit\fR is available, initializes the
project repository and runs \fBgit add .\fR, which stages all current\-directory
contents.
.sp
The command does not create a commit and does not modify parent directories.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The project scaffold was created successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Project creation failed because the target path already existed, a
prompt could not be completed, or a filesystem/setup step failed.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Create a new project in \fBmy\-project\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton new my\-project
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Create a non\-interactive counter project with explicit metadata:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton new my\-project \-\-name "My Project" \-\-description "Cool description" \-\-template counter \-\-license MIT
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Create a project with the TypeScript app layout:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton new my\-project \-\-template empty \-\-app
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Create a project and include \fBAGENTS.md\fR guidance:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton new my\-project \-\-template empty \-\-agents
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Create a project in the current directory:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton new . \-\-template empty \-\-name "My Project" \-\-description "A TON blockchain project" \-\-license MIT
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help init\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIProject management guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/projects>
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIBuild system configuration reference\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/building/reference>
.RE
