'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-FMT" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-fmt \[em] Format Tolk source files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton fmt\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIpaths\fR\[u2026]]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Format \fB\&.tolk\fR files using the built\-in Tolk formatter.
.sp
The command can rewrite files in place or run in \fB\-\-check\fR mode for CI and
pre\-commit validation. If no \fB_paths_\fR are provided, Acton scans the resolved
project root recursively.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Format Options"
.sp
\fIpaths\fR\[u2026]
.RS 4
Files or directories to format.
.sp
If omitted, Acton scans the project root.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-check\fR
.RS 4
Check formatting without rewriting files.
.sp
In this mode Acton prints diffs for mismatches and exits non\-zero.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "BEHAVIOR"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Only \fB\&.tolk\fR files are formatted
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Directory traversal is recursive
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Built\-in ignore globs always apply, including \fBnode_modules\fR, \fB\&.git\fR,
\fBtarget\fR, and \fB\&.acton\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Syntax errors are reported as diagnostics and cause a non\-zero exit
.RE
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
\fBacton fmt\fR reads defaults from \fB[fmt]\fR in \fBActon.toml\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
[fmt]
width = 100
ignore = ["contracts/generated/*.tolk"]
separate\-import\-groups = true
.fi
.RE
.sp
Useful fields include:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBwidth\fR for maximum formatted line width
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBignore\fR for additional exclude globs
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBseparate\-import\-groups\fR for blank lines between import groups
.RE
.SH "IMPORT SORTING"
Imports are sorted by group in this order:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'\fB@stdlib\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'\fB@acton\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'other \fB@...\fR imports
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'plain imports
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'\fB\&./...\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 6.\h'+01'\fB\&../...\fR
.RE
.sp
Within each group, imports are sorted lexicographically.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Format all Tolk files in the project:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton fmt
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Format selected paths:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton fmt contracts scripts/deploy.tolk
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Validate formatting without writing files:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton fmt \-\-check
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Run against another project root:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton \-\-project\-root ../my\-project fmt \-\-check
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help check\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIFormatting guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/commands/fmt>
.RE
