'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-BUILD" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-build \[em] Build all configured contracts or a selected contract
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton build\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIcontract\-name\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Compile contracts declared in \fBActon.toml\fR, resolve their dependencies, and
write build artifacts for the requested build set.
.sp
By default, \fBacton build\fR compiles every configured contract. If you pass a
\fB_contract\-name_\fR, Acton builds only that contract and its transitive
dependencies.
.sp
For each successful build, Acton writes a JSON artifact to the build output
directory and, when the contract config has an \fBoutput\fR path, also writes the
compiled \fB\&.boc\fR file there. Dependency helper files are emitted into the
generated\-code directory, and optional Fift output can be written separately.
.sp
Contracts with \fB\&.boc\fR sources are treated as precompiled inputs: Acton loads
their code, includes them in dependency resolution, and skips recompilation.
.sp
If the project has no \fB[contracts]\fR section or the section is empty, the
command prints guidance and exits without compiling anything.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Build Options"
.sp
\fIcontract\-name\fR
.RS 4
Build only the specified contract and its transitive dependencies.
.sp
The value must match a \fB[contracts.<name>]\fR key in \fBActon.toml\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-clear\-cache\fR
.RS 4
Clear the project compilation cache before building.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-graph\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write the dependency graph for the requested build set as a DOT file.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-out\-dir\fR \fIdir\fR
.RS 4
Directory for generated JSON build artifacts.
.sp
Defaults to \fB[build].out\-dir\fR when configured, otherwise \fBbuild/\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-gen\-dir\fR \fIdir\fR
.RS 4
Directory for generated dependency helper files such as
\fBgen/<dependency>_code.tolk\fR\&.
.sp
Defaults to \fB[build].gen\-dir\fR when configured, otherwise \fBgen/\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-output\-fift\fR \fIdir\fR
.RS 4
Directory for compiled Fift output for \fB\&.tolk\fR contracts.
.sp
Defaults to \fB[build].output\-fift\fR when configured. If neither the flag nor the
config value is set, Acton does not write \fB\&.fif\fR files.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-info\fR
.RS 4
Print compiled code and hash information for each successfully built contract.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to load for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running \fBacton build\fR outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery, cache storage, and
default relative output paths.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
\fBacton build\fR reads contracts from \fBActon.toml\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
[contracts.Wallet]
display\-name = "Wallet Contract"
src = "contracts/Wallet.tolk"
output = "Wallet.boc"
depends = ["Child"]
.fi
.RE
.sp
Optional default output paths can be configured in \fB[build]\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
[build]
out\-dir = "build"
gen\-dir = "gen"
output\-fift = "build/fift"
.fi
.RE
.sp
CLI flags override config values for the current invocation.
.SH "OUTPUTS"
Depending on command flags and project configuration, \fBacton build\fR may write:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB<out\-dir>/<contract\-name>.json\fR with \fBcode_boc64\fR and \fBhash\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the configured contract \fBoutput\fR \fB\&.boc\fR file
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB<gen\-dir>/<dependency>_code.tolk\fR helper files for dependencies
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB<output\-fift>/<contract\-name>.fif\fR for compiled \fB\&.tolk\fR contracts
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'a DOT dependency graph file when \fB\-\-graph\fR is passed
.RE
.sp
Existing output files at those paths are replaced with freshly generated
artifacts.
.SH "SIDE EFFECTS"
\fBacton build\fR writes artifacts, cache entries, and optional graph output under
the resolved project root. If one contract fails after earlier contracts were
built successfully, the successful artifacts remain on disk.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The command completed without compilation failures.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: The command failed because compilation, artifact writing, or dependency
resolution failed for at least one requested contract.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Build every configured contract:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton build
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Build one contract and its dependencies:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton build Wallet
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Rebuild with a cleared cache:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton build \-\-clear\-cache
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Write a dependency graph:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton build \-\-graph deps.dot
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Override output locations for a single run:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton build \-\-out\-dir artifacts \-\-gen\-dir artifacts/gen \-\-output\-fift artifacts/fift
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 6.\h'+01'Print compiled code and hashes after the build:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton build \-\-info
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help wrapper\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIBuild system configuration reference\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/build\-system/configuration\-reference>
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIActon.toml reference\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/acton\-toml>
.RE
