'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-CHECK" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-check \[em] Lint Tolk contracts and files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton check\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fItarget\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Run the Tolk linter on the whole project, a specific contract ID from
\fBActon.toml\fR, or a single \fB\&.tolk\fR file.
.sp
By default, Acton checks contracts from \fBActon.toml\fR together with workspace
test files and standalone script roots that define \fBmain()\fR\&. The command also
supports machine\-readable output formats and rule explanations.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Check Options"
.sp
\fItarget\fR
.RS 4
Contract ID from \fBActon.toml\fR or path to a \fB\&.tolk\fR file.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-fix\fR
.RS 4
Apply available fixes automatically.
.sp
Works only in plain output mode.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-output\-format\fR \fIformat\fR
.RS 4
Output format for diagnostics.
.sp
Possible values: \fBplain\fR, \fBjson\fR, \fBsarif\fR, \fBgithub\fR, \fBgitlab\fR
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-output\-file\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write output to a file instead of standard output.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-enable\-only\fR \fIcode\fR[,\fIcode\fR\[u2026]]_
.RS 4
Enable only selected lint rules, for example \fBE001,S001\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-explain\fR \fIcode\fR
.RS 4
Print an explanation for a lint rule.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "BEHAVIOR"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-fix\fR applies edits only in \fBplain\fR output mode
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'non\-plain output formats report diagnostics without rewriting source files
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBgithub\fR emits GitHub Actions workflow annotations
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'output format resolution is: CLI flag, then \fB[lint].output\-format\fR, then
default \fBplain\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-output\-file\fR is not valid with \fBplain\fR format
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'project\-wide mode includes workspace \fB*.test.tolk\fR files and standalone
script roots that define \fBmain()\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'single\-file mode relaxes \fBE014 (acton\-import\-in\-contract)\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'targets ending with \fB\&.tolk\fR are treated as file paths; other targets are
resolved as contract IDs from \fBActon.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'use an explicit \fB\&.tolk\fR path such as \fB\&./contracts/counter.tolk\fR when a name
could be mistaken for a contract ID
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'inline suppressions use \fB// acton\-disable\-next\-line E001,S001\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-fix\fR applies only linter\-provided fixes; diagnostics without a safe fix
remain in the report
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: No lint errors were reported, warning thresholds were respected, and any
requested autofixes completed successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Lint errors were found, warning limits were exceeded, autofix failed, or
configuration/target resolution failed.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Check the whole project:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton check
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Check a specific contract by ID:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton check counter
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Check one file:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton check counter.tolk
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Emit SARIF to a file:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton check \-\-output\-format sarif \-\-output\-file build/reports/lint.sarif
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Run only selected rules:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton check \-\-enable\-only E001,S001
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 6.\h'+01'Emit GitHub Actions annotations in CI:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton check \-\-output\-format github
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 7.\h'+01'Apply local autofixes where available:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton check \-\-fix
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help fmt\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fILinting guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/linting>
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fILinter rules\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/linting/rules>
.RE
