'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-UP" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-up \[em] Update the Acton binary from published releases
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton up\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIversion\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Download and install a published Acton release for the current target triple.
.sp
By default, stable builds update to the latest stable release. Trunk builds
stay on the trunk channel unless \fB\-\-stable\fR is passed explicitly.
.sp
The updater fetches release metadata from GitHub, downloads the matching
archive and SHA256 checksum, verifies the checksum, and replaces the current
binary.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Update Options"
.sp
\fIversion\fR
.RS 4
Specific version tag to install.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-trunk\fR
.RS 4
Install the most recent trunk release.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-stable\fR
.RS 4
Install the latest stable release.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-force\fR
.RS 4
Install the selected release even if Acton is already up to date.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-yes\fR
.RS 4
Skip confirmation prompts.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-list\fR
.RS 4
List available release tags and exit.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
This command does not require an existing project manifest for its primary
workflow. It remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-project\-root\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
This command does not require an existing project root for its primary
workflow. It remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "RELEASE SOURCES"
Acton queries GitHub release metadata and assets from:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBton\-blockchain/acton\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBi582/acton\-public\fR
.RE
.sp
If \fBGITHUB_TOKEN\fR is set, Acton uses it for authenticated GitHub API requests.
.SH "INSTALLATION FLOW"
When installing a release, Acton:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'selects the archive matching the current target triple
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'downloads the archive and its \fB\&.sha256\fR file
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'verifies the SHA256 digest
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'unpacks the archive
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'replaces the current \fBacton\fR binary
.RE
.sp
\fBacton up \-\-list\fR is read\-only and skips download or replacement.
.SH "HOMEBREW INSTALLATIONS"
If the current binary path looks like a Homebrew installation, Acton warns and
recommends using:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
brew upgrade acton
.fi
.RE
.sp
Without \fB\-\-yes\fR, Acton asks whether to continue with the built\-in updater.
.SH "INTERACTIVITY"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-force\fR bypasses the usual up\-to\-date short\-circuit for the selected release
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-yes\fR suppresses confirmation prompts for non\-interactive use
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Homebrew\-style installs prompt before replacement unless \fB\-\-yes\fR is passed
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'up\-to\-date checks and \fB\-\-list\fR can succeed without making local changes
.RE
.SH "CHANNEL SELECTION"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton up\fR on a stable build updates to the latest stable release
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton up\fR on a trunk build stays on trunk
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton up \-\-stable\fR switches a trunk build back to stable
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton up \-\-trunk\fR switches to the trunk channel
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton up <version>\fR installs the explicit version even if it is older or
newer than the current one
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The requested release information was listed, Acton was already up to
date, or the selected version was installed successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Release lookup failed, checksum verification failed, archive replacement
failed, or the update was cancelled or could not be confirmed.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Update to the latest stable release:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton up
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Switch to the trunk channel:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton up \-\-trunk
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Install a specific version:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton up 0.1.0
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'List available releases:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton up \-\-list
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Reinstall the currently selected channel version:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton up \-\-force
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 6.\h'+01'Update non\-interactively in CI or bootstrap scripts:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton up \-\-stable \-y
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIInstallation guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/installation>
.RE
