'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-TOOLCHAIN" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-toolchain \[em] Manage project\-selected Acton toolchains
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton toolchain\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Manage Acton releases installed side\-by\-side for projects that define
\fB[toolchain]\fR in \fBActon.toml\fR\&.
.sp
Project toolchains do not replace the global \fBacton\fR binary in \fBPATH\fR\&. They are
stored under:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
~/.acton/toolchains/<acton\-version>/acton
.fi
.RE
.sp
Use \fBacton up\fR when you want to update the global Acton binary. Use
\fBacton toolchain install\fR when you want to install the Acton release required by
a project.
.SH "PROJECT SELECTION"
Project toolchains are selected from the optional \fB[toolchain]\fR section in
\fBActon.toml\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
[toolchain]
acton = "0.3.0"
tolk = "1.3.0"
.fi
.RE
.sp
Both fields are exact versions.
.sp
If \fBacton\fR is set, Acton selects that release. If \fBtolk\fR is also set, the
selected Acton release must ship that exact Tolk version.
.sp
If only \fBtolk\fR is set, Acton uses the currently running binary when it already
ships that Tolk version. Otherwise, Acton selects the newest known Acton
release that ships the requested Tolk version.
.SH "SUBCOMMANDS"
.SS "acton toolchain install"
Install the Acton toolchain selected for this project.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton toolchain install\fR [\fIacton\-version\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIacton\-version\fR
.RS 4
Exact Acton version to install.
.sp
If omitted, Acton resolves the toolchain from the current project\[cq]s
\fBActon.toml\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
Install an exact Acton release:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton toolchain install 0.3.0
.fi
.RE
.sp
From a project root, install the toolchain resolved from \fBActon.toml\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton toolchain install
.fi
.RE
.sp
This is the recommended CI preinstall step:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton toolchain install
acton test
.fi
.RE
.sp
If the current binary already satisfies the selected project toolchain, the
command succeeds as a no\-op. If the selected release is already installed, it
also succeeds as a no\-op.
.SS "acton toolchain list"
List installed and known Acton project toolchains.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton toolchain list\fR
.sp
List installed side\-by\-side toolchains and known Acton/Tolk mappings:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton toolchain list
.fi
.RE
.sp
Yanked releases remain visible so diagnostics can explain why a pinned version
cannot be selected.
.SS "acton toolchain which"
Print the executable selected for the current project.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton toolchain which\fR
.sp
Print the executable path selected for the current project:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton toolchain which
.fi
.RE
.sp
If the selected toolchain is missing, the command fails with the exact
\fBacton toolchain install\fR command to run.
.SS "acton toolchain resolve"
Resolve the Acton toolchain selected for the current project.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton toolchain resolve\fR
.sp
Print machine\-readable resolution details:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton toolchain resolve
.fi
.RE
.sp
The JSON output includes the source of the selection, Acton version, bundled
Tolk version, whether the selected binary is current or installed, and whether
installation is required.
.SS "acton toolchain remove"
Remove an installed side\-by\-side Acton toolchain.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton toolchain remove\fR \fIacton\-version\fR
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIacton\-version\fR
.RS 4
Exact Acton version to remove.
.RE
.sp
Remove an installed side\-by\-side Acton release:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton toolchain remove 0.3.0
.fi
.RE
.sp
Removal asks for confirmation in an interactive terminal.
.SH "ONE-COMMAND SELECTOR"
Use a leading \fB+<version>\fR selector to run one project command with a specific
Acton toolchain:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton +0.3.0 test
acton +0.3.0 build
.fi
.RE
.sp
The selector is an Acton version, not a Tolk version. It must be the first
argument after \fBacton\fR, and it is not supported for commands such as
\fBacton up\fR, \fBacton help\fR, \fBacton toolchain\fR, or shell completion generation.
.SH "TOOLCHAIN INDEX"
Acton resolves known Acton/Tolk mappings from the toolchain index.
.sp
The index is fetched from the Acton GitHub repositories and cached under
\fB~/.acton/toolchains/index.json\fR\&. If the cache is fresh, Acton uses it without a
network request. If a stale cache cannot be refreshed, Acton continues with the
cached index and prints a warning.
.sp
If no index cache is available and the index cannot be fetched, commands that
need release metadata fail. An explicitly pinned Acton version that is already
installed can still run from its local \fBrelease.json\fR metadata unless that
metadata marks it as yanked.
.sp
Yanked releases are rejected during resolution when yank metadata is available.
.SH "DISPLAY OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SH "PROJECT OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The selected toolchain operation completed successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Resolution failed, the selected release is unavailable or yanked,
installation failed, or removal failed.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Install the toolchain selected by the current project:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton toolchain install
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Install a specific side\-by\-side Acton release:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton toolchain install 0.3.0
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Print known and installed toolchains:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton toolchain list
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Run tests with a one\-command Acton override:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton +0.3.0 test
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help up\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIActon.toml configuration\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/acton\-toml>
.RE
