'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-HOOKS" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-hooks \[em] Scaffold and manage project\-local Git hooks
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton hooks\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Manage project\-local Git hooks through Git\[cq]s \fBcore.hooksPath\fR mechanism.
.sp
Acton expects hooks to live in \fB\&.githooks/\fR inside the resolved project root.
The \fBhooks\fR command can create the scaffold, install the Git config override,
check whether it is active, and remove it again.
.SH "SUBCOMMANDS"
.SS "acton hooks new"
Create a \fB\&.githooks/\fR scaffold in the resolved project root.
.sp
If \fB\-\-template\fR is omitted, Acton opens an interactive selector.
.sp
This command only works when the resolved project root already contains a local
\fB\&.git\fR directory.
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-template\fR \fItemplate\fR
.RS 4
Hook scaffold template to create.
.sp
Possible values: \fBempty\fR, \fBdefault\fR
.RE
.sp
The \fBdefault\fR template creates \fB\&.githooks/pre\-commit\fR with a starter hook that
runs:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
#!/bin/sh
set \-e
acton check
acton fmt \-\-check
.fi
.RE
.sp
If \fB\&.githooks/\fR already exists or local hooks are already configured, the
command fails instead of overwriting existing hooks.
.sp
If local Git hooks are already configured for the repository, Acton asks you to
run \fBacton hooks uninstall\fR first.
.SS "Examples"
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton hooks new
acton hooks new \-\-template empty
acton hooks new \-\-template default
.fi
.RE
.SS "acton hooks install"
Set the repository\[cq]s local \fBcore.hooksPath\fR to \fB\&.githooks\fR\&.
.sp
This only works when the resolved project root contains a local \fB\&.git\fR
directory and \fB\&.githooks/\fR already exists.
.sp
Internally, this is equivalent to:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
git config \-\-local core.hooksPath .githooks
.fi
.RE
.sp
If \fBcore.hooksPath\fR is already set locally for the repository, including to an
equivalent path like \fB\&./.githooks\fR, the command fails and asks you to uninstall
the existing override first.
.sp
If \fB\&.githooks/\fR does not exist yet, run \fBacton hooks new\fR before installing.
.sp
On success, Acton reports that Git hooks were installed from \fB\&.githooks\fR\&.
.SS "acton hooks status"
Check whether the repository\[cq]s local Git config already points \fBcore.hooksPath\fR
to \fB\&.githooks\fR\&.
.sp
Equivalent local paths that resolve to the same hooks directory count as
installed.
.sp
\fBstatus\fR checks the repository\[cq]s local Git config only. Global or system
\fBcore.hooksPath\fR values do not count as installed for the current project.
.SS "acton hooks uninstall"
Remove the repository\-local \fBcore.hooksPath\fR override.
.sp
Internally, this is equivalent to:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
git config \-\-local \-\-unset\-all core.hooksPath
.fi
.RE
.sp
If no local override is configured, the command succeeds and reports that hooks
are not installed.
.sp
On success, Acton reports that Git hooks were uninstalled.
.SH "DISPLAY OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SH "PROJECT OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "RECOMMENDED WORKFLOW"
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton hooks new \-\-template default
acton hooks install
acton hooks status
.fi
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help new\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIHooks command guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/commands/hooks>
.RE
