'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-LS" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-ls \[em] Run the Acton language server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton ls\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Start the language server used for TON language tooling.
.sp
The server boots with the resolved project root, loads path mappings from
\fBActon.toml\fR when available, initializes the bundled standard library from
\fB\&.acton/tolk\-stdlib\fR, and serves requests either over stdio or a local TCP
socket.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "LSP Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-port\fR \fIport\fR
.RS 4
Listen on \fB127.0.0.1:<port>\fR and accept a TCP client.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-stdio\fR
.RS 4
Use stdio transport.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-log\-file\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write language\-server logs to a custom file.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-log\fR
.RS 4
Disable language\-server logging setup.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "TRANSPORT"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if \fB\-\-port\fR is provided, Acton binds to \fB127.0.0.1:<port>\fR and serves the
first accepted TCP connection
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if \fB\-\-port\fR is omitted and \fB\-\-stdio\fR is not passed, Acton defaults to stdio
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'if \fB\-\-stdio\fR is used, the server reads from stdin and writes to stdout
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the TCP mode is single\-client; after that client disconnects, the server
exits
.RE
.SH "LOGGING"
Unless \fB\-\-no\-log\fR is passed, the server configures file logging.
.sp
The default log path is:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
build/logs/tolk\-language\-server.log
.fi
.RE
.sp
Parent directories for a custom \fB\-\-log\-file\fR are created automatically.
.SH "PROJECT CONTEXT"
Before starting the server, Acton:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'resolves the project root and manifest path
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'loads \fBmappings\fR from \fBActon.toml\fR when present
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'preloads \fB\&.acton/tolk\-stdlib/common.tolk\fR
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The language server started successfully and served its session.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Startup failed because transport binding, stdlib loading, manifest
resolution, or log\-file setup failed.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Run the language server over stdio:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton ls \-\-stdio
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Listen on a TCP port:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton ls \-\-port 9273
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Use a custom log file:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton ls \-\-port 9273 \-\-log\-file logs/tolk\-ls.log
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help doctor\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIActon documentation\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/welcome>
.RE
