'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-LITENODE" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-litenode \[em] Manage Acton\[cq]s lightweight local TON node
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton litenode\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Manage the local development node used for TON\-compatible local execution,
forked\-state development, and faucet\-based local funding.
.SH "SUBCOMMANDS"
.SS "acton litenode start"
Start the lightweight TON node.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton litenode start\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-port\fR \fIport\fR
.RS 4
LiteNode server port.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-fork\-net\fR \fInetwork\fR
.RS 4
Remote network to use for forked account resolution.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-fork\-block\-number\fR \fIseqno\fR
.RS 4
Historical block sequence number to fork from.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-accounts\fR \fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR\[u2026]]_
.RS 4
Wallet names to auto\-fund and deploy on startup.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-api\-key\fR \fIkey\fR
.RS 4
TonCenter API key for remote blockchain queries.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-db\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to a SQLite database for persistent node state.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-rate\-limit\fR \fIrps\fR
.RS 4
Maximum \fB/api\fR requests per second to simulate provider rate limits.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-load\-state\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Load LiteNode state from a JSON snapshot before startup.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-dump\-state\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Dump LiteNode state to a JSON snapshot on shutdown.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-load\-state\fR and \fB\-\-db\-path\fR cannot be used together in the same run.
.SS "acton litenode airdrop"
Send TON from the local faucet to an address.
.SS "Synopsis"
\fBacton litenode airdrop\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIaddress\fR
.SS "Options"
.sp
\fIaddress\fR
.RS 4
Recipient address.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-amount\fR \fIton\fR
.RS 4
Amount of TON to request.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR \fIport\fR
.RS 4
LiteNode server port.
.RE
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
You can store defaults in \fBActon.toml\fR:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
[litenode]
port = 5411
fork\-net = "testnet"
fork\-block\-number = 55000000
accounts = ["deployer", "user"]
rate\-limit = 1
.fi
.RE
.sp
CLI flags override config values for the current invocation.
.SH "RUNTIME MODEL"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'fork mode allows local development against remote chain state
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton litenode start\fR runs in the foreground until the process is stopped
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Acton starts an HTTP server on \fBlocalhost:<port>\fR for LiteNode API, admin
endpoints, and the bundled LiteNode UI
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the server keeps running until the process is stopped, for example with
\fBCtrl+C\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the LiteNode UI is available on the root path, for example
\fBhttp://localhost:<port>/\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the bundled UI is a single\-page explorer app, so routes like \fB/explorer\fR,
\fB/tokens\fR, \fB/nfts\fR, and per\-address or per\-transaction pages are served from
the same frontend shell
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the UI reads chain data from \fB/api/v2\fR and \fB/api/v3\fR, and uses \fB/admin\fR
lookups for local address aliases and registered compiler ABIs
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'when \fB\-\-port\fR and \fB[litenode].port\fR are both absent, the current runtime
fallback is \fB5411\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-rate\-limit\fR applies to \fB/api/*\fR endpoints, not admin endpoints
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-dump\-state\fR writes a snapshot during graceful shutdown
.RE
.SH "PERSISTENCE"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-db\-path\fR enables persistent SQLite\-backed node state across runs
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-load\-state\fR initializes state from a JSON snapshot and cannot be combined
with \fB\-\-db\-path\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB\-\-dump\-state\fR exports a JSON snapshot on shutdown
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'when \fB\-\-db\-path\fR is not used, node state is ephemeral unless loaded or dumped
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The selected LiteNode subcommand completed successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Startup failed because port binding, state loading, remote fork
initialization, or faucet handling failed.
.RE
.SH "DISPLAY OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SH "PROJECT OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Start with defaults:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton litenode start
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Fork from testnet at a historical block:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton litenode start \-\-fork\-net testnet \-\-fork\-block\-number 55000000
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Load and dump JSON state snapshots:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton litenode start \-\-load\-state snapshots/localnet.json \-\-dump\-state snapshots/localnet.json
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Airdrop local funds:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton litenode airdrop UQA_ftKIJsHEAE_UgtFOUK15hPzycZooFuUr8duyY9T3kwwM \-\-amount 25
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Start a local integration node with pre\-funded accounts:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton litenode start \-\-accounts deployer,user \-\-db\-path build/localnet.db
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help wallet\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fILocal development node guide\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/local\-development\-node>
.RE
