'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-COMPILE" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-compile \[em] Compile a Tolk file into TVM code and related artifacts
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton compile\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIpath\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Compile a single \fB\&.tolk\fR source file with the Tolk compiler and print the
resulting code information or write artifacts to files.
.sp
This command is useful for inspecting compiler output, producing standalone BoC
files, generating source maps for debugging, and exporting ABI or Fift output
without running the full project build pipeline.
.sp
Unlike \fBacton build\fR, this command works on one explicit source file. It does
not traverse the \fB[contracts]\fR graph, does not generate dependency helper
files, and does not write project build JSON artifacts.
.sp
By default the compiler still expects a contract or script entrypoint. Use
\fB\-\-allow\-no\-entrypoint\fR when compiling library or helper files that
intentionally define neither \fBmain()\fR nor \fBonInternalMessage()\fR\&.
.sp
\fBActon.toml\fR is optional here. If it loads successfully, Acton uses it for
project context such as import mappings. Cache placement still follows the
resolved project root and the usual \fBbuild/cache\fR layout. If the manifest is
missing or invalid, Acton warns and continues compiling the file without those
manifest\-derived project settings.
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR and \fB\-\-project\-root\fR choose which project context to use, but
they do not rebase unrelated CLI paths. The input file and output paths stay
relative to the current working directory unless you pass absolute paths.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Compile Options"
.sp
\fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the Tolk source file to compile.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-json\fR
.RS 4
Print the compilation result as structured JSON.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-base64\-only\fR
.RS 4
Print only the compiled code as base64.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-boc\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write the compiled code to a binary BoC file.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-fift\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write the generated Fift representation to a file.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-source\-map\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write a source map file and enable debug\-oriented compilation output.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-abi\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write the emitted contract ABI to a file.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-allow\-no\-entrypoint\fR
.RS 4
Allow compiling files that do not define \fBmain()\fR or \fBonInternalMessage()\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-clear\-cache\fR
.RS 4
Clear the compilation cache before compiling.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "OUTPUT"
Without file\-output flags, \fBacton compile\fR prints compilation information to
standard output.
.sp
\fB\-\-json\fR and \fB\-\-base64\-only\fR change the stdout format when stdout output is
still enabled. File\-output flags such as \fB\-\-fift\fR, \fB\-\-source\-map\fR, and \fB\-\-abi\fR
can be combined with either stdout mode.
.sp
\fB\-\-boc\fR is special: Acton writes the binary BoC file and returns successfully
without printing the usual stdout payload. If \fB\-\-boc\fR is combined with other
file\-output flags, those other files may still be written first.
.sp
Depending on the selected options, Acton can also write:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'a binary BoC file via \fB\-\-boc\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'a Fift file via \fB\-\-fift\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'a source map via \fB\-\-source\-map\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'an ABI file via \fB\-\-abi\fR
.RE
.sp
\fBacton compile\fR does \fBnot\fR write:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBbuild/<contract>.json\fR project build artifacts
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBgen/*.code.tolk\fR dependency helper files
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'outputs derived from \fB[build]\fR defaults in \fBActon.toml\fR
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-source\-map\fR enables debug\-oriented compilation output. If the compiler does
not emit a contract ABI for the input file, \fB\-\-abi\fR does not create an ABI
artifact.
.SH "CACHE"
Acton uses the same compilation cache as \fBacton build\fR and \fBacton test\fR to
speed up repeated runs.
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Use \fB\-\-clear\-cache\fR to force recompilation.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Cache entries are invalidated automatically when source inputs change.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Cache entries are mode\-specific: \fB\-\-source\-map\fR and \fB\-\-fift\fR may require a
different cache entry than a plain compile of the same file.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Standalone files that are not registered as project contracts still benefit
from file\-import\-aware cache invalidation.
.RE
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: Compilation completed successfully, including runs that emitted warnings.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Compilation failed, cache setup failed, input validation failed, or an
output artifact could not be written.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Compile a Tolk file and print the result:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton compile contracts/main.tolk
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Save the compiled code to a BoC file:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton compile contracts/main.tolk \-\-boc main.boc
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Emit source map and ABI artifacts:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton compile contracts/main.tolk \-\-source\-map main.map.json \-\-abi main.abi.json
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Print machine\-readable JSON:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton compile contracts/main.tolk \-\-json
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Generate artifacts for source\-correlated disassembly:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton compile contracts/main.tolk \-\-boc build/main.boc \-\-source\-map build/main.map.json
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help build\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help disasm\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIBuild system configuration reference\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/building/reference>
.RE
