'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-FUNC2TOLK" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-func2tolk \[em] Convert FunC sources to Tolk through the upstream converter
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton func2tolk\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIpath\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Convert a FunC source file or a directory of FunC files into Tolk.
.sp
Acton shells out to \fBnpx\fR and runs the upstream
\fB@ton/convert\-func\-to\-tolk\fR package. Standard input, output, and error are
forwarded directly to the converter process.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "Conversion Options"
.sp
\fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to a \fB\&.fc\fR or \fB\&.func\fR file, or to a directory containing such files.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-output\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Write converted output to the specified path.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-warnings\-as\-comments\fR
.RS 4
Insert warning comments into the generated output instead of reporting warnings
only on stderr.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-no\-camel\-case\fR
.RS 4
Disable snake_case to camelCase renaming.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-version\fR \fIversion\fR
.RS 4
Version of \fB@ton/convert\-func\-to\-tolk\fR to execute.
.RE
.SS "Display Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SS "Project Options"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
This command does not require an existing project manifest for its primary
workflow. It remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-project\-root\fR\&.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Accepted as a global Acton option for CLI consistency.
.sp
This command does not require an existing project root for its primary
workflow. It remains mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "REQUIREMENTS"
This command requires:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'Node.js
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'npm
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBnpx\fR available in \fBPATH\fR
.RE
.sp
Acton uses a temporary npm cache directory for each invocation.
.sp
That means converter downloads are not reused across runs.
.SH "PROCESS MODEL"
Acton runs:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
npx \-\-yes @ton/convert\-func\-to\-tolk@<version> ...
.fi
.RE
.sp
If the converter exits non\-zero, \fBacton func2tolk\fR fails with the same outcome
reported as an Acton error.
.sp
If \fB_path_\fR is a directory, file naming and directory traversal are delegated
to the upstream converter. \fB\-\-output\fR is forwarded directly to that tool.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: Conversion completed successfully, including runs that produced warnings.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: \fBnpx\fR or the converter could not be started, conversion failed, or the
requested output could not be written by the converter.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Convert all FunC files in a directory:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton func2tolk contracts
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Convert a single file and keep warnings inline:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton func2tolk jetton\-minter.fc \-\-warnings\-as\-comments
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Disable camelCase renaming:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton func2tolk jetton\-minter.fc \-\-no\-camel\-case
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 4.\h'+01'Use a specific converter version:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton func2tolk jetton\-minter.fc \-\-version 1.0.0
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 5.\h'+01'Convert into an explicit output file:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton func2tolk jetton\-minter.fc \-\-output jetton\-minter.tolk
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIconvert\-func\-to\-tolk\fR <https://github.com/ton\-blockchain/convert\-func\-to\-tolk>
.RE
